# Chapter 3

The apprehensions of Captain Brent proved groundless. The passage was open and though there was considerable floating ice, the current was driving it in the same direction and we experienced no difficulty in sailing through. Indeed it was impossible for us to do anything but go through, for after we
had gotten fairly into the strait the current was like a mighty, swift, flowing river and had there been a fair wind to go back it must have blown half a gale to drive us against such a tide as was sweeping through. I was convinced that this was a permanent strait and not merely an accidental break in the great barriers. The regular smoothness of the sides showed the effects of a continuous current and the abrasions of great masses of ice carried through by it. I say I was convinced then; but when on our return we found the passage in every respect practically in the same condition as when we passed through first, there was positively no room for doubt. I will not contend that this strait is always open, but I do maintain that it is a permanent channel through which a strong current flows and I am certain that there is a backbone of terra firma underneath these barriers of ice, through which this passage cuts and is as permanent and clearly defined as the straits of Magellan or Gibraltar.
I
I have a theory, but as it must be elucidated in dry deductions of scientific reasoning. I will not inject it into this narrative. It is my intention though, as soon as possible to prepare a more elaborate work, which I am constrained to believe, will be a valuable addition to scientific literature.

It is probable that this passage is sometimes closed by ice packs or the entrance may be jammed with great masses of drift ice, while beyond, the channel may still be open. With a current always flowing through from the north, it is easy to imagine that a great iceberg happening to be nearby would be drawn in. If it were large enough to fill up the passage as many of them are, it would be firmly held there until crushed and broken up by the waves, hiding the strait and giving the appearance of a solid ice wall. Then too, mariners in these wild sea wastes are very cautious, seldom approaching near enough to the barriers to detect this passage even if it were open. What the depth of it is we had no means of ascertaining, for though we spliced together all the lead lines aboard the ship, we never succeeded in finding bottom anywhere.

On account of the tremendous current that set through with the ship, the log was valueless, but from close observation, both going and coming. Captain Brent estimates the length of the passage to be about twenty-five miles. On the farther side the ice walls and sea presented practically the same features as on this, the shining cliffs running away as far as the eye could see on either hand, while the black ocean heaved with great billows that broke with continuous thunder against the barriers or threw their spray high up on the great solemn icebergs that floated in silent majesty, too immense to be shaken by Neptune in the wildest efforts of his wrath.

The sun, which had been rising but a little way above the horizon for some time past, disappeared entirely soon after we got into the open sea beyond the barriers, but when the air was not filled with sleet or snow, it was never really dark. The aurora australis too, frequently lighted the sea with its weird strange glow so that it was easy for us to keep the frozen coastline in view. My object was now to circumnavigate this polar sea. Sailing eastward along the south side of the barriers until we again came in view of Mount Erebus far off to the north-west, we then headed the ship due south and soon sunk the ice bound coast and mountain beneath the black horizon of the Antarctic sea.

My idea then was that we were in an open polar sea, ice locked all around and we thought to sail directly across until we reached the barriers on the opposite side and thus obtain a knowledge of its extent.

Shortly after we crossed the ice barriers, the needle became erratic; deflecting more and more every day until it entirely reversed itself. The weather was fair and we detected this by the constellations or we would undoubtedly have sailed out of our course and turned the ship around in following the compass. For weeks after we passed through “Barrington Strait” (as I have been egotistical enough to christen it.) we had storms, snow and ice and the black ocean through which we ploughed was in no wise different from that which extends from Cape Horn to Victoria Land, except that we noticed less ice and met with no storms as severe as we encountered on this side, both going and coming. I will not weary the reader with the details of our long voyage in this hitherto unknown ocean. In the course of time, the sun again appeared and as we drew southward, the sea became cleared of ice and the cold moderated as it does in traveling from the poles to the equator. In vain, we looked for the ice barriers, which we supposed surrounded us: only the black open sea stretched on and we held our course. There were no exciting incidents and four months after passing the barriers, we were sailing in open seas out of the region of ice and snow with the weather constantly growing warmer. Two months later, we encountered driftwood and not long afterwards, seafowls appeared and grew more numerous every day. They first appeared on the starboard side, and as their number increased from day to day including some that were unmistakably land birds, I expressed the opinion to Captain Brent that we were sailing parallel to some coast and suggested that the ship’s course be altered to make this shore. This was done and evidences of land such as seaweed and driftwood became more apparent every day.

My interest and excitement became so great that I could not be still a moment when awake and could sleep but little. In a fever of restlessness, I walked the deck hour after hour and scanned the horizon for land (a perfectly useless waste of energy. as a man was stationed in the lookout, who of course would see the land long before it became visible from the deck.) The weather was fine and we were evidently nearing land of some kind.

As night closed on the 20th of July, an, illumination of some kind was plainly visible on the horizon off the starboard bow and the vessel's head was turned towards it. My excitement was so great that I did not go down to my cabin for supper. The illumination grew plainer constantly and at ten o’clock, the lookout at the masthead said he could distinguish what seemed to be electric lights. At this my hopes fell. T had been thrilled with the idea of approaching an unknown land in an unknown ocean, and now it seemed that in some way we had gotten back into the beaten track of the world and was approaching a modern city. Captain Brent was of the opinion that it was one of the cities on the west coast of South America, although it was impossible to understand how we could have gotten there as we had been sailing south by the heavens ever since we left the polar regions. In a short time, it was plainly to be seen from the deck that we were approaching a considerable city, lighted by electricity. As we neared, the land the lead was heaved constantly and after running in as close as he dared, the captain cast anchor and waited for daylight before attempting to enter the harbour.

As soon as the ship was made, snug and everything became quiet on board; I was struck by the strange silence of the city that lay before us. Although evidently a large city and a modern one, (if we might judge from the brilliant manner in which it was lighted,) there was an entire absence of that roar and rumble which characterises the modern American or European city. As a matter of fact, although we lay within a few miles, no sound of any kind came to us and the silence was strange and weird-like, as though it was some brilliantly illuminated city of the dead.

I was awakened next morning by the creaking of the winch and the rattling of the cable as the anchor was hoisted and dressing hurriedly I went on deck where the captain and crew were discussing the small craft that was coming out of the harbour. Even as we looked, a most remarkable boat came tearing out and pitching towards us at the rate of at least fifty miles an hour. As it came towards us, we could see only a great billow of foam and above it a covered deck something like a ferryboat or excursion barge. When it came alongside of us, we could see that the vessel, (if such a thing may be called a vessel.) consisted of a long cigar shaped hull submerged after the fashion of the American whaleback, with the superstructure raised on stanchions. On each end of this cylindrical hull were great cone shaped screws somewhat larger than the hull itself, and it was these that raised the billows of foam as they leaped through the water, pushing and dragging the strange looking boat. A uniformed pilot was put aboard, and a towing hawser thrown to the men in the bow. Saluting and speaking perfect English, though with a peculiar accent, the pilot asked what vessel it was. On being informed that it was the “Wanderer” of New York. United States of America, he dropped his jaw, stretched his eyes and looked altogether as upset as if he had been told that it was the Flying Dutchman. “What land is this?” asked Captain Brent in turn.
 
“The Iron Republic, sir," replied the pilot, again saluting, and advancing to the wheel. In response to our further questioning, he courteously stated that he was an officer on duty, that it was against the rules for him to hold any conversation except in reference to the ship and begged us to curb our curiosity until we got ashore, when all the information we desired would be afforded us. There was nothing else for us to do, so Captain Brent turned his attention to lowering and furling the sails, which had been hoisted, and by the time everything was made snug, we were alongside the pier.

As soon as we were made, fast another officer came on board and he, like the pilot, seemed to be dumbfounded when he learned that the vessel hailed from the United States of America. After inspecting the ship’s papers, he turned to Captain Brent and informed him that the circumstances of our arrival were so unusual and unprecedented in his experience that he would be under the necessity of conducting him to the office of the Director of Navigation. Thereupon, the captain introduced me as owner and the proper person to deal with, and the officer politely requested me to accompany him. “Sir.” said I, as we passed through the curious throng that had gathered on the wharf, “will you be kind enough to tell me what country this is and in what part of the world it lies?”
 
“This," he replied, “is the Iron Republic and the continent on which you stand lies about as far from the frozen ocean as your own continent of America does in the opposite direction."

Just here, having reached the outskirts of the crowd, he made a signal, and a man approached with a
horseless vehicle and dismounting saluted and opened the door of his carriage. Forbearing to question
further an officer of whose power and authority, I had not the slightest idea, and whose extreme
courtesy forbade impertinence. I took my place in the carriage and was whirled along wide, smooth streets through the heart of the city. I have remarked that though we lay just outside of the harbor and in sight of the city for some hours before entering, we heard none of that roar and rumble inseparable from cities of its apparent size among us. The reason was now plain. In the first place, the streets were all as smooth as a tennis court and there was nothing to make a noise. There was not a horse to be seen and it was evident from the floor-like cleanliness of the streets that they were not intended for the use of horses and wagons. On all sides were horseless vehicles of every description, from the lightest bicycles to large covered vans, all rubber tired, whirling to and fro swiftly and without noise.

I had only time to note the things referred to and to remark the strange and picturesque costumes of the ladies and gentlemen who were on the street, when my conductor drew up before a large substantial stone, building covering an entire block. Stepping down from the carriage, he assisted me to alight and ushered me into a large and well-lighted reception room in the front of the building. I noticed as we approached that a blue flag with a white star floated from the tower on the roof, and surmised that in some way the two officers with whom I had been brought in contact and the building, which we had just entered, represented the same department of government.

Conducting me to one of the comfortable seats with which the room was supplied, my companion excused himself by saying that the gentleman who met me at the boat would be with me in a few minutes and withdrew. Scarcely had he passed through the door when the person deferred to dune in, having presumably ridden up after us in his own carriage. Smiling pleasantly, he expressed the hope that I would not be annoyed by the little conventionalities to which I was being subjected, saying that my arrival was so extraordinary and so out of common with all other entries made since he had been connected with the marine, that he had no other recourse but to refer me to the head of the department. I assured him that I was under obligations for his courteous attention; that a stranger as I was and dazed by the extraordinary circumstances in which I found myself. I was in a condition to absolutely require guidance and direction. He desired me to consider myself under no restraint whatever, stating that I was being referred to the chief of the Bureau of Navigation, because he was at a loss to know how to place me on the marine register. Opening a door, he conducted me without ceremony into the presence of a gentleman whom he introduced as “Director of Navigation and Chief of the Department of the Marine." This officer, notwithstanding his evident high position, rose and smiling cordially bowed and asked us both to be seated. In a few words, the subordinate explained to his superior the circumstances of my arrival and asked for instructions in certain matters pertaining to the registering of my vessel. These were given and then the high official with rare feeling and tact arose and grasped my hand and welcomed me to the Iron Republic; saying that though it might lack the associations which must make my native country pleasant, it possessed advantages and attractions which he believed, from what he had been able to learn, could not be found in America. I thanked him for his cordial greeting and assured him that while some associations of my own country had been pleasant, others were very unpleasant and upon the whole, I was glad to have found my way to the “Iron Republic,” whatever and wherever it might be.

After inquiring into the details of my voyage in which he manifested great interest, the director remarked that the astonishment of his countrymen at my arrival would naturally be much less than mine, inasmuch as they had a very thorough knowledge of my country. It was known, he said, from the settlement of his country that the American continent existed; indeed that it was the attempt of a ship load of emigrants to get to America that led to the discovery of the continent on which the magnificent structure of government known as the Iron Republic had been reared. This was in 1698, and driven southward by fierce gales the colonists after many months of battling with storm and ice, found themselves cast on the inhospitable shores of a new world. For many years after the first settlement was made, it was supposed by the colonists that they were on a portion of the American continent, but with the development of the country, the increase of knowledge and the researches of navigators, it was found that they had been discoverers as well as colonisers. They knew all that was known in Europe of the American continent up to the time they were so effectually cut off from the balance of the civilised world and within the past fifty years two other American ships had drifted to their shores. When I told him how many lives had been lost and how much treasure had been squandered by America and other nations in Artic explorations, and expressed surprise that a people so advanced in the arts of civilisation as his nation appeared to be, should make no attempts to establish communication with other parts of the world, but should remain isolated for centuries, he smiled pleasantly and said he could appreciate my feelings. 

In the first place, he explained that the Iron Republic had never been engaged in maritime commerce to any considerable extent even in the days when trading was encouraged, as there were no other great maritime nations to trade with, as a consequence there was not that passion for voyaging and exploration, which obtains among a maritime people. Nevertheless, some attempts had been made to get through the barriers and as vessels had sailed away and never returned, it was supposed at the time, that some of them might have succeeded in the attempt. Since the establishment of the great republic though, no efforts had been made in that direction for the reason that there was not sufficient private capital to undertake such enterprises and from the knowledge they had of the outside world, the government did not desire closer intercourse with the older nations as it could not possibly do them any good and might result in much harm. This, he admitted, was a species of national selfishness; “but selfishness.” said he, with a smile, “is human and is one thing we have in common with all peoples past and present." He then told me that a Captain Morris had reached their country with a ship and crew during the progress of the great civil war and that some years before that an old American whaler had come to their shores. The whaler remained with them a year and then left with the intention of making his way back to America and was never heard of again. Captain Morris, he informed me, was then in the country and being, a man of great ability was at the head of the government naval college. The most of his crew, too, were still living and were established in different parts of the country.

At the conclusion of an hour of pleasant conversation, the affable Director touched a button, saying that it was very probable that the press had given out the details of my arrival. Speaking into a bell-shaped transmitter directly over his table he called “current news." and then pushed back his chair in a listening attitude. 

In a moment, a voice, rich, strong and distinct, answered back through the transmitter. “Current news!" — ‘‘Eight o’clock to ten.— President Wilkes and party arrived this morning at 8.20 by the through express, making the 760 miles from the capital to Corinthus in four hours and ten minutes. The president comes down to participate in the formal opening of the new Temple this evening. Everything is in perfect readiness and when the lights are turned on tonight the people will have no cause to regret the money expended in its construction. It will seat 5000 people and the architects, Messrs Horn & Jamison, claim for it the most perfect acoustic qualities of any auditorium in the Republic except possibly the amphitheater of the capital. In tests made yesterday, a whisper on the platform could be heard with perfect distinctness in the third gallery. The grand harmonium has been furnished with another chime of bells, the first set having-been rejected by Prof. Hallam on account of defectiveness of tone, “The Winter King,” Churchill's last masterpiece, will be rendered for the first time tonight. Prof. Hallam has pronounced it one of the greatest triumphs of the musical art. As the demand for seats will be large, admission will be had by drawings commencing promptly at 12:30 p. m. No change of program as given.

Senator Cromwell, of the Province of Urbana had an attack of paralysis this morning at 6 o'clock as he was plowing in his field and has not vet recovered consciousness. This is his second attack and the physicians feat it may prove fatal. Senator Cromwell is in the fourth year of his office as representative of the great province of Urbana and by his modest dignity and usefulness, has made himself one of the most popular senators that ever filled the office. He was the inventor of the Cromwell harrow and was the first to adopt the practice of dehorning cattle.

Exchange reports show that 27 million diems were canceled yesterday. This large volume of business was caused by the approaching cooler weather, which called out a heavy tonnage of coal. Potatoes in bond are not doing well and the Bureau of Subsistence has ordered them cut 20 per cent to encourage consumption and prevent loss.

The sensation of the day is the arrival at the port of Corinthus of another vessel from America. It was brought up this morning about 8 o'clock and is a typical American ship of 250 tons. Capt. Brent, master, with a crew of eight. The vessel is owned by J. Edward Barrington of the United States and sailed through the barriers about seven months ago. Mr. Barrington is at present in conference with the Director of Navigation and it is not known what his plans for the future are. A great crowd has already collected on the pier and Prof. Morris, the well known American author and president of the Naval College, will arrive from the capital on the 12 o'clock express to meet his countryman.

"Special resume at 12 o’clock."

The voice ceased and touching the button again, the director turned to me. I have not given all. or anything like half what came to us as current news, but just simply a sample. I enquired if this news was being read from a daily paper through the telephone and the director replied that it was the paper (or what corresponded to it) itself.

"Do you mean to say," I asked with astonishment, “that all of the people get the news as we have just heard it?"

“I mean to say." answered the director, that several millions of people heard or had the opportunity of hearing the same voice, giving out the same news that we have just listened to."

“And there is no paper printed?" I asked, scarcely able to grasp the idea of such a news’ service.
 
“None except what is printed right there." (pointing to a small machine I had noticed ticking on the table.) Every word you have heard is reproduced there in print and can be preserved for future reading or destroyed at the option of the patron." I stepped to the table and looked, but could make nothing of the cabalistic signs on the paper before me. “How is it." I enquired, “that you speak the English language and do not use the Roman characters as other English speaking people do?"

“We used the same letters." answered the director, “until the discovery of sound characters. Most of our books are printed in the old way, only the newest literature being printed with the sound characters.

“What do you call a sound character?" I asked.

“I may not be able to make you understand." said the director, “if you are unfamiliar with the development and progress of the knowledge of sound." I told him that the nature of sound as atmospheric vibrations was well understood by us and mentioned the telephone and phonograph in common use as an illustration. “Very well then," said he, “it is simple enough. The vibrations are communicated to the machine and the machine transmutes them into characters. Reproduce a sound a million times and it will make the same character every time. It is a true phonetic system and is Nature’s own writing."

Amazed at a civilisation evidently so far in advance of ours. I had forgotten the circumstances by which I was surrounded and would have questioned further, but the genial official excused himself, saying that his duties would deprive him of the further pleasure of my company at that time, but that he hoped to meet me again soon, outside of business hours and in a social way. In the meantime, I would receive the attention of the government. Pressing another button, he informed me that a carriage was ready to return me to my vessel, where in a few hours I would probably be called upon by my distinguished countryman and other representatives of the government.

Grasping his extended hand heartily I thanked him for his kindness and returned to the wharf. As I approached, in the conduct of the same officer who had carried me from the boat, the curious crowd fell back respectfully and I passed on board. Notwithstanding our position was one calculated to repress every emotion except astonishment, I found Captain Brent in a tremendous state of wrath and the steward was describing the heathenish country to which we had drifted, in a flight of profanity that was positively eloquent. On learning the cause, I found that the last named dignitary had been out in the city trying to purchase fresh meats and vegetables, of which the men stood in great need after their long voyage. It seemed though; that neither gold or silver would be accepted in payment and so the dinner of fresh victuals that all had looked forward to so eagerly, was not in sight. We were soon relieved, however, by the appearance of a van load of fresh supplies, which the vendor said was brought on an order from the Marine office.

I retired to my cabin and tried to collect my thoughts. I had been but a few hours in this wonderful country and already my senses had taken in more, it seemed to me, than my mind could analyze and digest in weeks. I felt as if I would like to get away by myself for two or three days and think it over. Everything was so new and strange, that all mental effort was directed to grasping the situation. 

After a dinner of fresh meats and vegetables, the first we had tasted since we left America, I was called on by Prof. Morris, a fine looking gentleman, apparently about sixty-five years old, who came aboard with the burgomaster of the city and several other persons of position, and welcomed us all to the Iron Republic. Our countryman seemed delighted to see us and he was to me the one link that connected us with a former world and imparted reality to scenes and circumstances that would otherwise have seemed an illusion. After an hour’s conversation in which the voyage was discussed and in which I learned that he had come through the barriers by the same channel that we had, he left us saying that he would call in the evening and take Captain Brent and myself to the opening of the new temple where we would have the opportunity to see the president and meet him afterwards. Prof. Morris was of the same opinion as myself in regard to the permanency of the strait which brought us through the barriers, but he thought it probable that it might be gorged with ice and remain closed for years at the time. Indeed, he thought that it was perhaps only open at rare intervals when the seas were unusually clear of ice. However that may be, I found the strait open both going and coming and except for the current experienced no difficulty whatever in getting through, and it is my opinion, based on a theory which I have formed and which will be fully explained in my forthcoming book, that there is yet another passage through these barriers which may be found if it is sought for with half the ardor that has been devoted to Arctic explorations.

We accompanied Prof. Morris to witness the opening of the new temple that evening and as we took our places in the tier of seats set apart for visitors and strangers, I never gazed upon a finer interior or saw a more superior audience. From pit to gallery was such an array of female toilets as was never dreamed of in America. Indeed, it seemed to me, as my eyes swept over the magnificent auditorium, some grand pageant prepared in honor of a royal Mardi Gras or fete. The costumes of the ladies were similar in style and richness to those of the most superb ballet and every gentleman was in full dress with knee breeches, ruffles and buttoner. What seemed remarkable to me was that the people in the last gallery were just as handsomely dressed as any in the house. I called Prof. Morris’ attention to this and he informed me that there were no social differences in any part of the house; that the seats were all drawn by lot and the most distinguished person in the city might draw a seat in the gallery, while a hod carrier got the best in the house. As a matter of fact he said it would be difficult to make social distinctions, as the President of the Republic was a brick mason.

Just then the orchestra, or rather the great Harmonium, began to play and the laughter and conversation of the brilliant assemblage drowned in a crash of music, grander than anything I had ever heard be-fore. From a tremendous explosion of harmony, it would sink to the softest tones of flute and harp and then again swell to a crash of melodious sounds in which were chimes of deep toned bells, roar of drums, shrieking of horns and concussion of anvils, dying away again to the delicate tremulous quaver of a single violin string. And as these divine strains from the instrument rose and fell in the production of the musical drama, the theme was illustrated by wonderful spectacular view projected on the curtain of the stage. I noticed from the program that this production was the “Winter King,” and as the fierce north wind howled and shrieked and moaned in the musical passages, the snow fell in the spectacular and the sleet-laden trees crashed before the blast. Anon, breakers boomed and thundered on a rockbound shore and then could be seen a dismantled ship drifting to wreck and ruin. Altogether, it was the grandest thing I ever saw, or, it seemed to me, that human genius could produce. Another fine effect I noticed was produced by the electric lights, set in the dome shaped ceiling. These lights were covered by partly coloured glass globes that at intervals revolved, throwing every shade of beautiful light over the audience with changing and shifting tints weirdly beautiful. The intention of this. I surmised, was to heighten the illusion by thus eliminating the audience, making it as strangely unreal as possible. It was successful and in all, beautiful beyond my powers of description. You not only heard, you saw and felt. With the dying away of the last deep roll of thunder, the sinking of the wind to a sighing zephyr, the subsidence of the black, white-manned sea, the sweet warbling of a bird that seemed to carol its song in an ecstasy of delight that nature's convulsion was passed, the grand finale was reached, the sun burst forth as if by magic, the great auditorium was illuminated by a pure white light, bright as day and then the curtain rose. As it rolled up a picture was seen in the background, at the sight of which the concourse of five thousand people rose as one man and waved their handkerchiefs and applauded to the top of their bent. It was a simple picture and yet it evoked the wildest enthusiasm. Just a backing of sky and in the foreground a massive iron pillar with a quality of solidity and inertia about it, which no words can convey. Overarching the pillar was a rainbow and on it were inscribed the words, “The State Was Made For Man. Not Man For The State.” On the pillar was the statute of a man with a hammer poised and above it floated a blue flag with a white star in the centre. This was the device of the Iron Republic and certainly, if enthusiasm proves anything, it was a loyal audience. 

When the cheering finally subsided a rather stout, awkward looking gentleman walked out on the stage and was received with an ovation. He appeared to be young, though prematurely bald, and so timid that it was not until after several efforts that he succeeded in finding his voice. When he did, he introduced another gentleman, tall and handsome, as “Prof. Churchill, the author of the ‘Winter King' and an artist whom we all delight to honour.” The artist received his need of applause and bowing with a gratified smile they both left the platform. “Ah,” said I turning to Prof. Morris, “now I perceive that I am indeed in the Iron Republic, for your Churchill would never have gotten off in American without a speech.”

“Never fear,” replied my companion, “we will doubtless have speeches enough before we are through, even in the Iron Republic.

On enquiring who the timid young man was that appeared on the stage first and was received with such applause, I was informed that it was Prof. Hallam of the National Conservatory and the greatest musician in the republic. After this incident, a fine looking gentleman advanced to the centre of the stage in front of the picture, bearing a silver shield on which rested a massive key of gold. I was somewhat startled at this lavishness, but I was to learn to my cost, that gold in that country was a vastly different thing from gold in other parts of the world.

Walking to front, the gentleman spoke as follows:

“Fellow citizens. I have the honour to present to you through your executive this evening, the keys to this edifice, which is to be consecrated to the education, elevation and happiness of our race. Its foundations are of granite, its walls of marble, its roof of glass and phosphor-bronze. —imperishable materials, as becomes the temple of an imperishable nation. It is not a monument of dead stones to cover the bones of dead oppressors as are the granite heaps of Egypt and of Rome, but a living temple made animate by the spirit of art, philosophy and religion, of which it is to be the concrete body. Its dust may fly on the winds of future ages or fructify the fields of those to whom we will be an ancient race, but virtue is immortal and the noble passions and ambitions kindled here will live forever, beyond the remorseless touch of time. Fellow citizens, I deliver to you that which is yours and relinquish all right and claim to it whatever!”

Here a modest looking gentleman with stooping shoulders and the carriage of a working man, mounted the platform amid perfect tumult of applause and lifting the key from the shield with a bow, thanked the architect, (for such he was), in a few well chosen words, for the skill and painstaking bestowed in the creation of such a work of art; and as that gentleman retired from the stage, turned to the audience and spoke in part as follows: “Fellow citizens. The earth may be likened to a great laboratory where things are made, tested and improved, and where nothing is perfect enough as yet, to be stamped with the seal of immortality. So far, eternal power seeks no permanent form. Changeless in its nature, it is most changeful in its manifestations and expresses itself in a million forms that wax and wane and pass away, leaving the spirit of power to enter other bodies. Under the dust of the moist less desert we find the track of the long perished river. Beneath the greenest landscape, lie other landscape buried. So in the realm of thought. Delve where we may, in literature, art, philosophy or religion, we evermore turn up the ashes of things that were; and so in turn, shall the dust of things which are, slip through Time's fingers and find the roofs of things to be. 

And as genius moulds and remoulds the pliant clay till the perfect form is reached; as the eagle with each revolution in his circling flight mounts upward to the sun, so Nature, in her ceaseless evolutions grows more perfect with each succeeding change. The earth born wrestler in the Greek mythology was thrown down but sprang up, strengthened by contact with his mother Earth! And so death levels all, only that life may spring up in new and more perfect forms. 

The awful mystery of life and death, of darkness and light, of good and evil, we may not understand; but, we know that where two lions matched strength to strength and died in combat, sprang up two lilies fragrant and fair; and enriched by the dead carcasses of savage beasts they grew luxuriantly tall and beautiful. Thus does nature through the mystery of death effect the transmutation of savageness and strength into sweetness and beauty. And thus do her analogies teach us, that the evils and inharmonious of the present time shall combat each other to death and through death transmute their undying forces into harmonious forms of beauty. And so shall the flight of the arrow become the spray of the fountain, the sweep of the broad sword the song of the circling scythe, the tumult of war, the shouting of children at play!”

We give this introduction of the president because it was so fine of itself and so impressive and effective in its simple and modest delivery. In his further remarks, he dwelt on the affairs of the Republic, the prosperity of the people and the possibilities of the future. It was a splendid address of twenty or thirty minutes, after which there was more music, the reading of a poem composed by a local poet for the occasion and an address by the burgomaster. There were also remarks by a celebrated actor and the program closed with a beautiful anthem by Prof. Hallam and an invocation and benediction by a venerable old gentleman who I understood my countryman to say was a Professor of Christian Philosophy. At the conclusion of the exercises, Captain Brent and myself were presented to the president and had a few minutes of pleasant conversation with him. He informed us that he was made aware of our arrival in a few minutes after we came ashore, and would have telephoned his greeting but that he anticipated the pleasure of meeting us in a few hours. He tendered Captain Brent and myself the freedom of the Republic and invited us to accompany him to the capital the next day. The invitation was warmly seconded by Prof. Morris, who commanded us to make his house our home during the visit. Being desirous above all things to see the country, I accepted their invitations and parted from them with the understanding that I should meet them at the office of the affable Director of Navigation the next afternoon.

———

On our return to the vessel, Captain Brent and myself discussed the situation thoroughly, and decided, so far as the ship was concerned, to leave everything in statue quo for the time being. I instructed him to pay the crew up to date and without cancelling articles, to give them all shore leave for thirty days with the privilege of going where they pleased in the country or remaining on the vessel at their option. He with the steward was to remain on board. The next morning I went out to look up a bank with the view of converting some of my gold into money of the realm. Failing to find any such institutions, or even to make any one understand my wants, I had recourse to my countryman, Prof. Morris, who had been thoughtful enough to give me his address the night before. I informed him of my desire, at which he looked grave and asked me what my resources were. I told him that I had money enough to answer all my present wants, having about $50,000 in American gold in my safe aboard the vessel, and that what I wanted was to find a safe bank where I could deposit it and convert it into money of the country as occasion should require.
“My dear sir," said the professor seriously, “I fear your greatest disappointment with the country will be
when I enlighten you on the subject of your enquiry. Such things as banks are unknown in the financial
system of this country.”
 
“But surely,” said I, “there are places of ex
change where I can convert American gold into the currency
of the country?”
 
“No,” replied he, f 
or the simple reason that gold is not money in this country and is convertible into money on the basis of its intrinsic value, as iron, coal and other commoditi
es are.”
 
“I understand that,” I interrupted, “and in that, your system is not really different from ours. Gold
money with us is based on the intrinsic value of the metal and therein differs from silver and other forms of currency. That is the beauty of the gold standard to which the United States is destined. There
is no artificial or ‘fiat’ value inhering in it, consequently it is worth as much in any other country as it is in ours.” “Yes," replied the professor, with a smile, “it is worth as much in any
other country where it is used for money, but you must know my dear sir that it is from its use as money, that it derives its chief value. In this country, it is never used for money and its intrinsic value is only what it derives from its utility in other respects the same as tin, iron or copper. It is not half so useful as any of these, but it is much scarcer and is relatively higher on that account. Still, you must be terribly disappointed when I tell you that what was a handsome fortune for you in America is comparatively an insignificant sum in the Iron Republic. There will not be the slightest trouble though in converting it into money of the realm and you need have no hesitancy about doing it, as you can reconvert it into gold at the same rate any time. In other words, you can deposit it in the government exchange, receiving its value in currency with the

———————


privilege of exchanging the currency for gold ag
ain at any time. Come,” said he,
 
“let us go down and arrange it at once.” Going out we took a kind of 
 horseless cab and soon alighted before, by far, the largest building I had yet seen. Rather I should say we alighted in it, for the streets passed through the building, as did a number of railroads. Going into an office the professor walked up to the counter and asked the price of gold. The clerk in charge handed out an official sheet that looked like a market report and with his pencil pointed to the quotation of gold in the list. We learned from this that it was worth two diems (pronounced dayems,) per pound. A simple calculation showed my $50,000 of American coin to be worth about $666. I was dumfounded. In a single moment, I felt a handsome fortune swept from my hands. I actually cowered as from a blow. My companion must have noted it, for he slapped me on the shoulder and rallied me, saying that I was richer in the Iron Republic without a dollar than I would be anywhere
else in the world with a million. “Six hundred dollars! Why,” said I
despairingly
, “that is not
enough to support me until I can find w
ork!”
 
“Why, my friend, that is enough to keep you in comfort for several years. And there is your vessel worth 10,000 diems at least, enough to make you a very rich man indeed in this country.”
 After ascertaining the market value of my gold, it took but a short time to have it brought to the government exchange and weighed in. Before the metal was weighed in, the clerk in charge asked me for my seal; I in turn looked inquiringly and rather helplessly to Prof. Morris, who explained that I was not a citizen and therefore had no seal. This seemed likely to prove a fatal hitch in the proceedings, for the clerk said it was impossible for him to certify me unless I had a seal. After consultation, it was arranged by having Prof. Morris deposit for me. It may be supposed that I was an interested observer of these conventionalities, so entirely new and strange to me. Drawing what appeared to be a disk of hard rubber about the size of a twenty-five cent piece from his purse, my friend dropped it into the slot of a registering device attached to the scales, the clerk in charge pressed a lever and a small card fell out
along with the professor’s seal, placing the seal in his pocket Prof. Morris handed me
the card. On one side was a facsimile of the seal, a circular orna
mented border and within these words, “W. A. Morris. American, citizen by grace. 1863.” On the reverse was stamped in figures that cut into the card, the
exact weight of the metal. The entire business was transacted without the agent of the government ever touching the gold or the receipt for it. From the scales the metal was passed to the assayer nearby, who put a stamp under the weight, indicating its fineness and then it was tagged and carried to a vault-like storeroom. Passing to another department, (for the place was arranged similar to a great bank.) the professor laid down his card and had counted out to him a pile of bills something like bank checks, (ruled crossways on the back to hold many signatures), aggregating 654 diems, the alloy in the gold making it worth 12 diems less than the quoted price. These bills were handed over to me and the business was completed. The whole transaction consumed scarcely more time than it takes to describe it and we went from there to the Marine Office where we met the president, and the three of us lunched with the Director of Navigation



————————


at a hotel. At two
o’clock,
 we repaired to the station to take the cars for the capital of the republic. The president and Prof. Morris were recognized and greeted courteously by almost every one we met, but there was no groveling or sycophancy. I could scarcely realize that I was in the company of the president of a great nation, so simple and unpretentious were his manners and carriage. He carried his own carpetbag in his hand and seemed to expect no more deference than anybody else. Prof. Morris purchased my ticket for me and we sat down with a number of others in a comfortable
waiting room and in a few minutes a porter came in and announced that the “Capital City express” was
waiting. We went through a gate where our tickets were taken up and passed into the cars. These cars were four feet wide, six feet high and twenty-four feet long. The seats extended entirely across the car and there was no provision made for walking about in the coach. Between every two seats, placed to face each other, a door opened from the side, so that they were practically compartment cars with room in each compartment for four persons. There were a dozen or fifteen of these cars in the train, but no locomotive, engineer or conductor was in sight. I noticed that the end of the car at the front of the train was pointed like the bow of a boat and when the passengers were ushered into the cars, the doors were all locked from the outside. A full description of these railroads with detail drawings and specifications of their entire equipment is furnished with my official report, but will not be injected into this narrative, as it would doubtless be tedious to the lay reader. In order though that my reader may better understand the plan of the cars I have been describing, l will state that this railroad was an elevated affair, massive iron pillars set in the ground like those 0n which are laid, the elevated railroads of New York. There was no heavy superstructure though, as in American elevated railways. the tracks or girders on which the cars run, being placed, one at the top and the other about six feet lower down, thus making one track directly above the other instead of being side by side, as on American railways. The cars were elevated on an average about ten feet from the ground. On account of depressions they sometimes ran considerably higher, but never less than ten feet over a road or lower than six feet anywhere. Thus, they could encounter no obstacles and were so attached to the track that they could not fly off even if the wheels on which they ran were broken or detached. The railway was double tracked, that is there were two sets of tracks, one on either side of the upright iron pillars and the cars on opposite sides, ran in opposite directions, so they could never collide. The columns which supported this novel railway were set about the same distance apart as those of an American elevated road and as they took up scarcely any room and required no right of way, the road ran through farms and villages without danger or inconvenience to anybody. The freight cars, of which I saw a great many standing in the government storehouse, or exchange, were simply iron cylinders of about the same size as the passenger cars. The passenger trains were run in the daytime and the freight trains at night. This description applies to all of the railroads in the republic, except some roads, which were built for carrying coal, ores, etc. These run under ground. These roads are run entirely different from American railways, trains never stopping at stations to put off or take on passengers. After it leaves the starting point, a car never stops till its reaches its destination where it is switched down from the main line and rests on a track underneath it and on a level with the floor of the station. For instance, the train we took at Corinthus, never slackened speed a particle from the time it got under way until it ran down on its siding at Ironia, some seven hundred miles distant. No car ever stop on the main line and by a very ingenious arrangement, cars on the main line can never get within less than ten miles of each other. The motive power is electricity and when they get closer together than ten miles, the current is cut off from



——————


the rear train so that it loses speed. I have, as l have said, a full technical description of this railway system, furnished me by the government engineer, for it goes without saying that it is owned and managed entirely by the government. In a few moments after the bustling porter ushered us into our compartment, we started off with a gentle motion which increased until within less than two minutes, we were flying across the country with a velocity I never conceived of before. There was no noise, no jar, the motion being more like that of a flying iceboat or smooth toboggan slide, than anything else. The president and Prof. Morris endeavored to draw me into conversation, but a faintness and dizziness came over me so prostrating that I seemed on the verge of collapse. I struggled against it and brought to bear all the force of will I possessed, but the fearful speed completely unnerved me. The cars being elevated above the ground and the windows but little below the level of the eye, we could only see the landscape at some distance and as it flew by I felt as if I were imprisoned in a great cannon ball being fired through space. Cold perspiration broke out on me and try as I might, it was impossible for me to conceal my distress. It was not fear, for I knew from the construction of the cars and road that an accident was reasonably impossible and I was assured by my companions that a fatal accident had never occurred on the road. It was only the smooth, noiseless, terrible speed that affected me and within an hour it wore off and I was myself again and began to take a lively interest in the country through which we were passing. As we sped on through great tracts of country covered with farms, towns and villages, over great rivers, across hills and valleys, it made a flying panorama beautiful beyond description. Frequently we intersected other roads like ours with flying cars, crossing either above or below them. It was not long after I had recovered sufficiently to become interested in the outside world, before I observed what, strangely enough, I had not noticed before. That was people flying about the country with the greatest ease and grace. I had not noticed any suggestion of aerial navigation at Corinthus, but Prof. Morris told me that if I had been in the suburbs, I would have seen hundreds of people out every fine afternoon flying for pleasure. I was not surprised to see the air navigated, for I had long been of the opinion that it was only a matter of time when the feat would be accomplished in America. I was surprised though at the simplicity of the flying machines. I had been accustomed to think of a practical flying machine as something very complicated and large; a kind of balloon, car and steamboat combined. But here were people flying about
with the greatest ease, with nothing but a sail drawn over a frame like a great bird’s wings,
underneath which they swung like a spider under his web. A propelling wheel of the same materials was driven some times by light machinery, but most often by the muscles of the flyers. It all seemed so easily and gracefully done that I could not help wondering that people were not flying the world over.




——————




“How is it,” I asked my companions, “that people here seem to do so easily what we have labored vainly
so many
years in my country to accomplish ? Are you stronger, or is the atmosphere more dense?”
 
“Neither one nor the other,” answered Prof. Morris. “You people
have always gone at it the wrong way, or had; up to the time I left the country. You have been swallowed up with the idea of machinery. You have seen birds carry their own weight and twice as much besides, with ease; you have seen clumsy squirrels expand their skins by stretching out their legs and make astonishing flights through the air, and yet though knowing that man is one of the strongest animals in the world to his size, it has not yet occurred to you to apply that strength intelligently in the effort to fly. Really your attempts at flying have been quite as ridiculous as it would be to attempt to swim by machinery! With a light aero plane having the requisite area of surface and a simple gear with which he could apply the strength of his back, arms and legs to a propelling fan, your boys, with the opportunity, would learn to fly quite as easily as they
learn to swim. All you require to enable ‘Young America’ to acquire expertness in the air as he does in
the water and on the ice, is the simple aero plane and a high wire two or three hundred feet in length from which he could suspend himself while learning to manipulate his flyer." A moment's reflection convinced me that the professor was right and during the entire trip, nothing interested me so much as to watch the graceful flyers of whom there were nearly always some in view. I enquired if there were not a very great many casualties resulting from such hazardous exercises and was informed that there were none at all. That if anything should happen to the aeronaut in midair; the aero plane would let him down to earth as gently as a parachute and without danger. Seeing how absorbed I was with the outside view and appreciating my curiosity, my companions very considerately left me to myself for the most part of the journey, while they discussed matters of interest to the country at large. We arrived at
the capital at six o’clock, making the 700 miles in four hours and twenty
-five minutes. When we reached our destination and the train stopped, the doors were opened for the first time since we started and descending we found ourselves in a large vaulted room surrounded by all the bustle incident to a great and prosperous city. Prof. Morris called a carriage and parting from President Wilkes (who cordially invited me to call on him at the executive department,) we took our seats and were driven
—
or propelled rather, through wide tree-
bordered streets to the Professor’s home in the suburbs.
Being but a dull practical clod, language fails me to describe the feelings and impressions of that hour. The streets were brilliantly lighted and were filled with gaily dressed people, some walking, some riding in carriages or on bicycles , some standing in knots about the corners or sitting on rustic iron seats under the trees along the curb, and notwithstanding the great concourse there was no noise except the laughter and conversation of the people. As in Corinthus, there was not a horse to be seen, all of the conveyances being self-propelling. The light and glamour, the beautiful costumes, the noiseless, swiftly



——————




moving carriages all seemed like a dream of fairyland. In the delightful home of my countryman and patron, there was not so much to remind me that I was in a strange country. The decorations and furnishings were not so different from that of the best houses in America, except that besides real works of art there seemed to be a strict adherence to the rule that everything that was there was there for use. There was no piling up of heterogeneous and conglomerate masses of trumpery such as is to be found in many so-called fashionable houses of America under the general term of bric-a-bac. The general style of furnishing was something between American luxuriousness and Japanese simplicity and utility. The room into which I was ushered seemed to be a parlor, library and general receiving room all in one and was warmed by electricity, but that cheerful glow which the sight of a ruddy fire imparts, was obtained by having an open grate piled with inconsumable fagots that blazed white and red when the current was turned on. A handsome instrument reaching almost to the ceiling (and which I afterwards found to be a combination pipe organ and grand piano,) stood in one comer and by it, a music rack piled with what appeared to be a great variety of music. After conducting me into this room and requesting me to make myself at home, my host stepped to the mantel over which was a transmitter something like what I had seen in the office of the Director of Navigation at Corinthus, and pulled out a stop, whereupon in tones sweet and rich, but soft and low the most beautiful orchestral music seemed to float in and fill the room. He then excused himself and withdrew saying that he would rejoin me directly. I was so charmed with the music that sounded like the far off strains of some grand orchestra, that I made no note of time and was only recalled to my surroundings when Prof. Morris advanced into the room leading a handsome woman of middle age who he introduced to me as his wife. Extending her hand she greeted me most cordially, (while the Professor shut off the music,) welcoming me to her country and particularly to her home. I acknowledged her courtesy in the best language I was able to command and expressed my sincere and heartfelt gratitude for the warm welcome I had received from every one I had met, especially from herself and generous husband. My hostess was dressed in a house gown, or kind of wrapper, and was certainly a very prepossessing woman. With a most engaging smile, she assured me that in meeting a countryman of her husband's she felt that she was meeting a near relative and with a directness and simplicity that completely captivated me, she expressed the hope that I would reciprocate the feeling. She also insisted
—
and in this she was joined by her husband, that I should make their house my home all the time and any time that I was in the capital. As I had had but little time to talk with my host before, the conversation naturally turned to the world we had left and especially to our native country. I briefly outlined the course of events from the time he left the United States down to the present. In all this as may be supposed, he was deeply interested and his charming wife appeared to he not less so. The civil war was in progress when he left America and it was with great satisfaction he learned that the Union had been preserved and loyal friendship again established between the states. He informed me that he was a young officer in the navy when the war broke out, but being of southern birth he could not take up arms against his native state and at the same time, he was too loyal to array himself against the federal government. As a way out of it, he





———————



resigned and being quite wealthy, he purchased and manned a vessel, and having long cherished a desire for polar exploration, resolved to spend the period during which the war was being waged, in a voyage to the Ant-artic regions. Like myself, he had found the passage through the ice barriers and sailed down to the coast of the Iron Republic. As he was familiar with the history of the world and particularly that of the United States down to 1861 when he left it, and as the wonderful country in which I found myself was as new to me as if it had been located on Jupiter of Mars, there was of course far more for me to learn than to tell. But as I knew how great his interest must be in the world he had left more than thirty years before and had never heard from since. I fore bore asking any questions concerning his adopted country until I had imparted to him as thorough a knowledge as possible of what had taken place in the old world since he left it. As I warmed up in this endeavor, inspired by the eager interest of both my host and his wife.
—
who listened with rapt attention. I was interrupted by the rustling of a portiere behind and turning, I saw a vision of loveliness that drove the whole subject from my mind and so confused me that as I rose to be introduced, I hesitated and stammered like a school boy. There, framed by the arched doorway, with one hand raised to push aside the portiere, was a picture to rattle the most stolid and indifferent son of Adam. (You see how naturally I fall back into the American vernacular.) Tall, fair with a wealth of golden brown hair coiled like a turban on the crown of a magnificently poised head. I beheld standing before me the most splendid woman that I had ever gazed upon, Large brown eyes beaming with intelligence, milk white forehead broad and low, a firm mouth, exquisitely chiseled with full ruby lips, a well rounded chin, strong, but relieved by a most charming dimple, perfect teeth and snow white, as I observed when she smiled a most gracious welcome, such was Helen Morris, the daughter of the house, as she
appeared to me the first time. I had always been proud of America’s beautiful women, of whom I had
known many, but never before had I looked upon a woman that so impressed, or I should rather say, overwhelmed me. She was richly attired in the evening dress of that country which heightened the charm of her queenly face and figure. She wore a close fitting bodice of light blue silk that displayed to perfection the exquisitely rounded bust and well-formed waist and extended just high enough to be caught with a pearl shell ornament like an epaulet over the shoulders. Above this was set a rich lace collar or yoke, of a delicate peach blow tint, which served to emphasize the whiteness of the alabaster throat, close fitting sleeves of the same stuff revealed, rather than hid, the beautifully molded arms, ending with large ruffles at the wrists. Around the waist was belted a skirt of seal brown velvet extending half way to the knees and under this was worn a close fitting knitted garment of dove colored silk that terminated in seal colored buskins fastened with light blue pearl buttons around the shapely ankle. She looked like a beautiful prima donna before the footlights in full stage costume, every perfection of form and feature was displayed to the greatest possible advantage and as she advanced
with natural and unstudied grace. I could not but remark how much more beautiful God’s most exquisite
creation appeared in this garb than in the starched and stilted skirts as I had been accustomed to seeing them all my life. She also greeted me cordially and though too polite to appear to notice it, with a sweeping glance she took in my costume and I imagined that I could detect a smile lurking in the corners of her mouth. To a person who had never before seen a man attired in baggy legged trousers that dragged the floor and



———————




high glazed collar that cut the chin, I, no doubt, presented quite a ludicrous appearance. As I contrasted myself with her father, gracefully dressed in the old English fashion of knee breeches and ruffles. I could not but perceive that it was to my disadvantage. After the exchange of a few pleasant civilities in which I was as much charmed with the music of her voice as I had been with the beauty of her person, she announced that the evening meal was waiting and taking her father's arm led the wav to the dining room leaving me to escort Mrs. Morris, or rather to be escorted by her. The dining room, or kitchen, for it was all in one was a cozy room with polished stone floor and at one end was what appeared to be a low enameled sideboard, though I found when the meal was served that it was an electric furnace from which the different dishes were taken and set upon the marble-topped table. Everything was served from the dish in which it was cooked and I learned for the first time that culinary operations could be carried on without soot or smoke. The cooking vessels were set upon paper mats and under each plate was spread a snow white paper napkin while another, neatly folded lay beside it. At the risk of being tiresome I am going thus minutely into these details, my object being to give as clearly as possible an insight into the way these people live. It is with the hope too, that overworked American women whose lives are one long martyrdom to the washtub, the dishpan and the ironing table, may profit by the simpler and cleanlier customs of a more advanced people. Knowing what American customs were, my host remarked to me that there was enough necessary labor in the Iron Republic to keep everybody employed and so no unnecessary labor was indulged in. No tablecloths or napkins were laundried, the paper ones used being fully as good and so cheap that the cost was a mere nothing. Even these, after being used were packed in a hamper and exchanged for new ones at half the original cost. They were chemically cleansed and went into pulp again at the factory and so were used over and over. The professor and his wife sat opposite to each other at the table, which placed me vis-a-vis to the charming daughter. I had been accustomed to social functions of every description and no Beau Brummell was ever more at home at a fashionable dinner party than I. But with this beautiful woman directly in front of me, her radiant face only a few feet from mine and our knees almost touching under
the table, I was as awkward as a country bumpkin at a Lord Mayor’s banquet.
 They were all kind enough I think, to attribute this to the strangeness of my surroundings and in most gracious ways strove to relieve me of my embarrassment and make me feel at home. During the meal hour, which was a most delightful one, we talked about American customs and then the conversation turned upon American art and literature, in comparison with that of the Iron Republic. In the discussion, which followed I was pitted against the ladies. My host remarking that, as he was a citizen of both countries he should be equally proud of the achievements of each. I dilated on our poets, essayists and



———————




novelists and lauded the achievements of our architects and painters; but whether it was the superior numbers of the enemy or superior strategic ability, my native country was made to appear as far behind in these as in the more practical arts of life. The best of the old English writers were not unknown to them, as Prof. Morris carried a well-stocked library in the vessel that bore him to his adopted country. Emerson, Longfellow, Whittier and many other American writers they were also familiar with as the professor had brought their earlier works to the country and all had been republished and put through
many editions. Finally, turning to my host. I said banteringly, “Professor, if your relations to both
countries disqualifies you for participating in this discussion or taking sides, it ought to fit you all the better to act as referee between us. You are familiar with what is best in both countries and to your  judgment I am willing to defer: Now, upon the lines we have been debating, which country in your opinion, is entitled to take
precedence?”
 
“This.” said the professor after a moment’s
hesitation
“is a difficult question to answer. To institute a
comparison of this kind is like comparing one part of the firmament to the other. Every nation has produced its great men
—
men who were brilliant in different ways. One part of the firmament has stars as bright as any other part. The human mind has its limitations and probably some men of every race have risen to the limit of human achievement in some things. But while all parts of the firmament may contain bright stars.
—
as bright as the brightest,
—
looking at the sidereal heavens you will observe that one part, taken altogether, is more luminous than another, that is to say has more bright stars. And so, passing judgment on both countries as a whole, I am compelled to say that the Iron Republic has surpassed America or any other nation. America has produced one Longfellow; the Iron Republic many. An essayist like Emerson towers above you like a monarch of the forest; here, they are as the leaves in
Vallambrosa’s shade. You had one Beecher: here, his name is
legion! And so in every field where the human mind has blazed a shining way. I will not say that in America the highway of genius is less exalted, but it is less traveled!"
“But why should that be so," I asked, unwilling to yield the point, “when both nations came from the
same parent stock and developed under practically the same climatic
conditions?”
 
“My dear sir." replied the professor with a smile, “that question is easily answered. Admitting the
intellectual equality of the two nations, there is every reason why this should excel in every field of human effort except that of bold and cunning acquisitions. The construction of your government and indeed of all the governments of the old world is such as to encourage the prostitution of great talents to selfish personal aggrandizement. The genius which has made your thousands of great politicians and financiers, would have made the same men great, or many of them, with a more unselfish and enduring greatness in this country. Here, Henry Clay or Daniel Webster would never have devoted an hour of time or an iota of talent to the trade of politics; for neither, by taking thought, could have added a cubit to his political stature. The genius that has built up million dollar fortunes in your country, here, would have lain dormant or been more unselfishly applied. What I mean to say is that in this country great talents can only find expression in the fields of art, literature, philosophy and science, while in your country



—————


they may be applied to stock jobbing, financial exploitation and the trade of politics. All these fields invite talents of the highest order and yield returns more gratifying to our selfish instincts."
“Do I understand that talent counts for nothing here in the race for wealth or political preferment?"
I asked with astonishment.
“It counts for little in the race for wealth and absolutely nothing in the
race for political preferment,"
answered my host. “The consequence is that ambition, to be gratified, must be in a measure unselfish
and genius must expand and soar in a noble field or remain dormant. You cannot hope to grasp the results of a century of intelligent government building in a few minutes, but you will understand when you have had time for observation," he continued as we left the table. On our return to the sitting room my host excused himself saying that he had some business affairs to look after which would detain him the better part of the evening. Almost immediately afterwards Mrs. Morris also excused herself on the plea of having to look after the affairs of her kitchen, for it appeared that although in affluent circumstances, they kept no servants. This left me alone with the daughter and for a few moments, we sat in rather an embarrassing silence. The glorious beauty of this woman, her great lustrous brown eyes that seemed to irradiate everything they looked upon, the striking and brilliant costume that revealed so perfectly every charm of her graceful form, made the whole seem to me like a scene in the Arabian Nights, in which I was bewitched and transported from the realm of sober reality into the magical presence of some wonderful princess. She relieved the situation by rising and asking me if I would not like to hear the news of the day, approaching the contrivance over the mantel from which had issued the music before supper. "You will
probably hear a good deal about yourself,” she s
aid smiling archly as she proceeded to adjust the bell shaped transmitter.


