# Chapter 5

When we left the ladies and passed into the library, my host informed me that he was at my service for the day and would take pleasure in showing me about the city, which besides being the capital, was one of the most beautiful in the republic. “I have ordered a carriage which will be here in a few minutes,” he said, “and we will, if you please, devote the forenoon to an inspection of our principal public buildings. This afternoon we can take a general view of the city. And now,” he continued, “if you will consent to wear a suit of my clothes until you can have a tailor supply you, I think it will save you some annoyance. The unusual style of your dress must attract attention and it is not pleasant to be the centre of interest for the curious crowd.”
 
I thanked him and availing myself of his kind offer, went up to my room and made the change. As we were of about the same size and proportions, the clothes fitted me admirably, and though I felt at first like a baseball player or Richelieu at a masquerade, I was far more comfortable than I would have been in my own outlandish garb. Taking our places in a kind of motor carriage or landeau that had arrived, we were whirled rapidly through many beautiful streets and squares to the capitol. This magnificent building of which I have a number of photographs on board of my vessel, is modeled after the Roman Pantheon but much larger. Also instead of one, there are four columned entrances of white and blue marble, that rose to the height of the dome and then from a richly ornamented fringe broke away into moorish towers of great beauty. Each of these entrances was a building of itself and above the pillared rotunda which forms an entrance to the auditorium under the great dome, are several stories divided into offices for the different departments of the government. From the second floor, each of these opened into a passageway on a great gallery that ran entirely around the auditorium and thus they were connected above the ground and within the building. Passing into one of these great vestibules, we ascended a broad stairway on one side of the gallery, from which my friend said a better view could be had of the great auditorium. There were elevators on the other side, but as we were only going up to the first floor, we took the stair.

Any adequate description of this magnificent place as it appeared to me when we walked out on the broad gallery is beyond my powers. The auditorium, I was informed, is two hundred feet in diameter beneath the dome, making the circuit of the gallery on which we stood about six hundred feet. This balcony was supported all around on graceful columns and surmounted by a heavy bronze balustrade, which is a rare work of art. On the floor of this immense amphitheater, was a platform or arena, some fifty feet in diameter, enclosed with a railing and furnished with chairs and desks for the use of the members of the National Assembly. These were rolled to the back of the platform as the place had been used for a concert the night before and I immediately recognised it as the place I had seen in miniature. From this platform, the seats in the auditorium extended back to, and under the broad gallery that ran around the walls making, with the balcony, the professor informed me, a seating capacity for about fifteen thousand persons. The seats in the body of the auditorium were built of marble with numerous aisles leading down, while those on the balcony were of bronze.

Around the entire amphitheater, where the great dome sprang from the supporting walls, was a heavy gilded cornice supported by ornate capitals resting on pillars in bas-relief that extended to the floor of the balcony. Between this cornice and a heavy gild mould a few feet under it was the National picture gallery, where portraits of presidents and notables of the republic, in every field of effort. Only a small part of this space had been consumed and I was informed that if the present high grade of eligibility was maintained, it would require at least a thousand years to fill this gallery. I was assured that to get one's portrait in this place was a greater distinction than it was to have been crowned victor in the ancient Olympian Games, or to be buried in Westminster Abbey.

Above the cornice, was undoubtedly the most magnificent and artistic frieze ever created by the hand of man. Over a ground work of rolling cloud masses, black and storm driven, that was piled around the circle of this grand cornice like a horizon, were pictures representing in allegory the history of the nation. Even if I were capable, the poverty of our language forbids an adequate description of this amazing work of art. The first picture was a ship leaving an old world city with all the attendant scenes that could portray the emotions of friends and kindred in the act of parting. The next was the same ship lone and wave beaten fighting its way through the icebergs of a polar sea. In the next the voyagers are landing with thanksgiving on a new found land. And so it went on, the wonderful pictures all trending in the same direction with the storm driven clouds and illustrating pioneer life, agriculture, art, science, religion and war and making an historical panorama which it would require days and even weeks to properly study and appreciate.

“And have you had wars in this country?" I asked as my eye rested on a most realistic scene of fire and carnage.

“The most cruel and horrible perhaps of any nation in modern times," answered my friend. “That was before my arrival in the country, but the very ground on which this building stands has been soaked in human blood and piled with the mangled bodies of the slain. The present order, so far removed from even the contingency of war, was by no means a bloodless achievement as you will find when you have time to read the history of the country," Above the frieze which I have been trying to describe, was a beautiful and artistic border of angels flying swiftly in the direction indicated by the development of the allegorical procession below. From this to the zenith, the great sky-blue dome was relieved with dashes of flecks of cloud in representation of the firmament, with here and there an airy picture from the ancient mythology. It was lighted by many windows, but they were covered with glass so exactly tinted to match the surface in which they were set that they were scarcely distinguishable. The whole interior surface was set with electric jets, which by night appeared like stars shining in the sky. This was the chamber of deputies and though the National Assembly was not in session, it was open, as indeed, I was informed that it stood open to the public always, night and day and was one of the attractions of the capitol to visitors. Quite a number of people, evidently strangers, were scattered about the auditorium, singly or in groups, admiring and descanting on the beauties of the place. I noticed, too, several ladies and gentlemen, apparently art students, who had their easels set at different places on the balcony and were engaged in copying pictures from the frieze. Standing within the railing of the platform, a janitor was demonstrating by some experiments, the remarkable acoustic qualities of the place. Tapping a desk with a gavel, (which sounded in the gallery like the report of a six-pounder, he requested us all to stand still for a moment and then he snapped his fingers and the sound came to the furtherest gallery as distinctly as the crack of a whip. Next, he whispered a sentence, which was perfectly audible, and then he took up a pen and wrote a line on a sheet of paper lying on a desk. The scratching of the pen could be heard to the remotest seat more than a hundred feet away. I remarked to my guide that the debates here must be of a very exciting character to require so large an auditorium, especially as every word spoken here could be heard by the people in their homes. In reply, he told me that they were exciting sometimes, but the most interesting events and those that drew the largest audiences were when distinguished men of national reputation came to claim “privilege.” To make me understand this, he explained that any person, man or woman, at the request of the deputy from their province, by recommendation of their Commonwealth Assembly or on a petition signed by one thousand citizens, could claim the privilege of this floor to speak on any measure of public policy, the same as if he were a national senator. On occasions when men of great fame came here to discuss questions of importance, the vast auditorium was filled to its utmost capacity. Also at the inauguration of presidents, the people came in great numbers from all parts of the country. As a matter of fact I was told that during the sessions there was always people enough to make a large audience.

After taking in the auditorium we passed into other parts of the great building where were the different departments of the government. We went through the departments of “Justice," “Agriculture," “Transportation and Public Utilities," “Subsistence," “Finance" and “Progression." The last was really a department of internal improvement, corresponding somewhat to our department of the interior. There was no departments of state, war or navy. The Post Office Department was one of the largest and was in a separate building, as the postal system there includes a species of banking and express.

After going through the capitol, we inspected several other fine public buildings situated in the “Capitol Square," a large park-like area which was laid off with trees, shrubs and flowers and adorned with fountains and statuary. In a paved court facing the main entrance to the capitol was a circular monument or pillar of solid iron, thirty feet high and ten or twelve feet in diameter on which stood a colossal bronze statue of what was apparently a working man with a sledge hammer thrown back in the attitude of striking a blow. A bronze scroll on the face of the pillar was inscribed with the words, “The state was made for man, and not man for the state." The statue, the professor told me, was of a blacksmith named Adam Holt, who was the real founder of the republic, and the pillar was cast entirely of the cannon, which had been used in the Great War that preceded its establishment. Every president who was inaugurated took the oath of office, I was told, with his hand on the pillar, and his first official utterance was to declare in the hearing of the people, the words of the scroll.

We went through the National Conservatory of Music, The Historical Museum, The Marine College, (of which my host was the head), and the National college of Experimental Sciences. Everywhere my companion was received with the greatest courtesy and seemed to be held in the highest esteem.

I entered the conservatory with an interest enhanced by what I had heard of its talented president and recognised him at once from having seen him on the stage at Corinthus. My first glance, when I was introduced to him showed me that I was in the presence of that sporadic production of nature that we call genius. He was a young man but prematurely bald and a decided stoop made him appear short, though he was really of medium height. A fringe of light brown hair clustered around his large head and his complexion was as fair as that of Helen Morris. His eyes were blue and rather watery and impressed me, even when he was speaking to me, with the idea that he was listening to something afar off. Apparently he had never shaved, for the scant brown beard, that grew upon his face was as fine as a woman's hair. When I expressed my high appreciation of his musical production of that morning and told him how his accomplishments had been lauded by his fair pupil, he smiled in a pleased way and remarked that Miss Morris was, herself, the possessor of fine musical talents. He then launched into a dissertation on the divine art and I saw by the futile attempts of Prof. Morris to ring him off and turn the conversation into other channels that he was “wound up” on that subject. He dilated on Miss Morris’ great capacity for harmony and deplored her fatal deficiency in technique, in such a way as to show that
he had thoroughly analyzed her from the musical standpoint. I knew nothing of his musical terms but was an interested listener while he talked about his beautiful pupil and encouraged him to the top of his bent, although I could but smile as I noticed that he discussed her exactly as he would a piano or violin. I
wanted to “size him up” as we say in America and tried him on other subjects, but outside of his art, he was as blank as the backside of a tombstone. I asked him about the manner of his inspiration and he told me that he caught strains from the wind in the trees, from the singing of birds, from everything he heard that was not discordant. He informed me that he had a light Aeolian harp attached to his aero plane and as he sailed through the air he had only to arrange the music it made for him, to get his very best compositions. We went up into the “tower of music” and he described to us the perfections of his great instrument with as much pride and enthusiasm as an American would talk about his first baby. From a musical standpoint, he was decidedly interesting.

After walking over the beautiful grounds, we returned to the Marine building, where in the private office of my host, we remained until the hour for lunch.

“There is so much to tell you,” he replied to a question of mine in regard to the government, “that I hardly know how to begin. Take the elective franchise now; we have no voting for officers here as you do in the United States. Every man here, who is a citizen, has the same chance to hold office and that is unquestionably the only truly representative form of government.” “Do you call that a truly representative system,” I asked, “which gives the most stupid and untalented man an equal opportunity for office and political preferment that the brilliant, the forceful and the laborious enjoy?” “That is just
why I do call it truly representative,” answered the professor. “The great masses of mankind are stupid and untalented; without disparaging your country, which is also mine, I may safely say that ninety-nine out of every hundred men are untalented plodders. And yet, except in accidental cases, mediocre men
never have a seat in your national legislature unless they have inherited, or in some other way obtained money enough to buy it. The representation is almost wholly by the brilliant or forceful men; men who can by strength, genius or cunning, control circumstances and compel fortune. In the Iron Republic, every class of men, the brilliant, the forceful, the untalented and stupid, may hope to enjoy the honours of office in the proportion that they exist.”
 
“I am curious to know by what means you secure this average of representations,” said I, “for certainly in politics. I can conceive of no method which will not give the race to the swift and the battle to the strong.”
 
“Well, to begin with,” answered my friend, “we have no such thing here as politics, in the sense that the word is used in the United States. There, if there has been no improvement since I left the country, politics simply means that fierce, desperate and continuous struggle which goes on between brainy, unscrupulous and self-seeking men for place and power, where the strongest and most conscienceless stand to win and where success means selfish aggrandizement and gain. It is destructive to the finest sentiments of manhood and has debauched and prostituted the noblest intellects.,, “But you must admit,” I insisted, “that the strong and brainy men are best fitted to devise laws for the government, not only of themselves, but also of the stupid and un-talented, — if we may continue to so designate the ninety and nine plodders.”
 
“I admit nothing of the kind,” retorted the professor. “On the contrary, I believe that even in America, the least talented lawmakers are the most useful, because they have less reason to be influenced by considerations of personal ambition. It is with great intellect now, as it was with great skill and strength
in the olden time; it is almost invariably used to advance the interests of its possessor at the expense of the less gifted. I will agree that the more capable a man is, integrity and other sterling qualities being equal, the better fitted he is to devise laws for his fellows, provided his own selfish interests are in no way involved, and that is just the condition here. The laws for the government of this republic are devised by its scientists, scholars and philosophers, men who for the most part have no offices and no power to obtain them. Their efforts being thus absolutely untrammeled by considerations of selfish interest or ambition, are necessarily unselfish and for the good of their kind. Here, laws are originated by the people and adopted by them, the function of their representatives being simply to properly frame and execute statutes at their command. In other words, they are the servants and not the masters of the people.”
 
“But,” said I with a trace of impatience which I could not conceal, “you surely cannot expect that men who are capable of devising wise measures of public policy will do so without the hope of reward, either in the way of gain or gratified ambition !”
 
“Indeed I do expect it,” said my friend, “no man who ever had great thoughts could keep them to himself even though publishing them brought him persecution instead of profit. The finest intellects of the world have delved in the domains of science, philosophy and religion, without gain and why not in that noblest field for genius, the art of human government?”
 
“Well,” said I laughing, “we have a saying in America, that ‘you can’t argue against success,’ and in the presence of the monumental success of the ages I am without an argument. But I am curious to understand how it is done.”
 
“Nothing in the way of human government is so simple,” replied my friend, “unless it be an absolute despotism. We start with the assumption that any man or unmarried woman with the necessary qualifications of age, character and education, is entitled to be a citizen. Accordingly when he or she, goes to the proper authorities with a certificate from the register or supervisor of their primary, that they are twenty years old and that they are under conviction of no crime, with a diploma from the public school, they have issued to them a seal like this, (drawing from his purse the medal I had seen him use at the sub treasury in Corinthus), which invests them with all the rights and privileges of full citizenship in this republic, or to speak technically, they are ‘franklins’ of the first grade. Every office under the government is now as accessible to the dullest of these franklins as to the brightest. To make you understand more perfectly, it is necessary to explain to you the political divisions of the country. First, we have the ‘primary.' This consists, technically, of an area seven miles square, or forty-nine square miles and containing one thousand franklins. In practice, though, the extent of the primary is purely arbitrary, depending upon the quality of the soil, natural resources of the section and consequent density of population, and may contain one thousand franklins or any fraction thereof over three hundred. Of course, citizens can live in unorganised territory, that is, where no primary has been constituted; but this deprives them to some extent of their privileges if they are franklins of the first grade, as they have no opportunity to vote their seal and so pass into the second grade. If they are
franklins of the second grade though, they can vote their seal for the third grade in any primary in the commonwealth in which they live. Any citizen, too, can exercise the ‘ appellate ’ franchise and vote on the acceptance or rejection of laws in the primary most convenient to him. These primaries correspond to your precincts in America, and in the centre or part most accessible to all, is the shire, where is located the post office, sub treasury and public school. The only elective officer in the primary is the supervisor, (the lowest civil officer under the state,) who after one year’s service becomes by virtue thereof, primary magistrate. On the first of December the franklins meet at their shire and this officer is chosen by lot, every citizen having an equal chance. On the first of January, the lucky man on whom the choice has fallen, assumes the duties of the office, his predecessor becoming magistrate in place of the retiring incumbent. A primary magistrate exercises the functions of notary public and trial justice, has control of post office, public school and sub treasury and represents his primary in the commonwealth council, a body corresponding very nearly to your board of county commissioners. He employs postmasters, bookkeepers, schoolteachers and all who work for the state in his primary, at prices fixed by law. It is the principle of despotism, —the simplest and most economical form of government. —applied by the people themselves. ‘Vox despoto, vox populi,’ The supervisor is simply a subordinate officer or assistant to the magistrate with the power to act in his place when required."

After a citizen has served successfully as a supervisor and magistrate, he becomes a franklin of the second grade and is eligible to the next higher office under the state, which is that of commonwealth deputy in the provincial assembly. This body corresponds to your state legislature. One week after the primary election, the commonwealth election is held, which is participated in by all ex-magistrates in the commonwealth, and one is chosen commonwealth representative in the provincial assembly. The choice for all civil officers is by lot. A week later, the provincial elections are held and from the body of ex-commonwealth deputies one is chosen to represent the province in the national senate. All of the newly elected bodies meet on the first day of January and organise and the new senate from the whole number of ex-senators in the republic choose a new president. The primary elections occur annually, the commonwealth elections biennially and the provincial and presidential elections quadrennially, the terms of office being respectively, one, two and four years. A citizen is, by virtue of his seal, a citizen of the first grade; after he has served as magistrate, he is in the second grade. After serving as deputy in the provincial assembly, he is a franklin of the third grade and when he has been elected national senator he advances to the fourth grade. After he has served as president, he has no grade at all, having no longer the right to vote or participate in any election. No citizen is eligible to the same office more
than once and after serving in any of the capacities mentioned, be-comes eligible to the next office above and holds that grade if he does not go higher until he reaches the age limit, which is sixty years for the first grade and seventy for the others.

As with the exercise of the franchise in America, some of our citizens never contest for any office, having no desire for public life and it being entirely optional with them. When a man is out of office, he is only a private citizen having no advantage over any other franklin in the republic, except merely his eligibility, in common with all others of his grade, to the office next above the one he has held. Retiring presidents are an exception, as by virtue of having held every office under the state, they are considered preeminently qualified and become life members of the supreme cabinet, which body is composed of
ex-presidents and three citizens of the first grade, chosen for distinguished ability and appointed by the incoming president with the approval of the senate. This supreme cabinet serves as an advisory council to the president and as a national board of arbitration, to which is referred all vexed questions of internal administration. It is the highest authority in the republic and by its sanction; the president has the right to veto. Can you conceive of any scheme of government simpler than this?" asked my friend. “Our financial, judicial and penal systems are just as simple and satisfactory, but we have not time to go into them now." 

“'The scheme certainly possesses the merit of simplicity." I replied, “and yet under it, is it not possible, probable, — aye, extremely probable, that a controlling majority in these legislative bodies may be wholly incapable of framing suitable laws for a great state? My observation has been that men are egotistical and obstinate in the proportion that they are incompetent, and a majority of such men, it seems to me, would not only fail to legislate wisely, but would prevent a capable minority from doing so."

“My dear sir." exclaimed the professor, “you have not yet grasped the first principles of legislation in this great country. It is not the exclusive function of any of these legislative bodies to originate legislation. They may indeed, devise and propose laws, but they have no power to enact any whatever for the government of the people. Here is where the elective franchise comes in, as every law, whether proposed by the national senate for the republic, the provincial assembly for the province or the commonwealth council for the local government of the primaries, must be referred to the people and its acceptance or rejection determined by their vote. Wise measures of public policy are originated for the most part, by scholars and publicists and when they arc elaborated and perfected by public discussion. they are properly framed and submitted to the people in the appellate elections. It is the appeal to the people for an expression of their will on the subject; The people may take the initiative and compel legislative bodies to propose laws. This is a prerogative though, that is never exercised, for legislators knowing the alternative, are always willing to propose any legislation demanded by their constituents.

You want to bear in mind that there are no political parties here, such as you have in America, consequently there is not the vindictive strife and party feeling that you have there. There are no questions of personal ambition or party expediency to be considered and no motive to swerve any legislator from the most absolutely unselfish efforts for the public weal."

"There must certainly be differences of opinion on measures of public policy." I suggested.

“There are differences of opinion, of course, on nearly all measures that are proposed and they are discussed by the press and the people and then settled by vote of the sovereign citizens. But as there is no necessary connection between the success of these measures and that of any individual in the nation, the discussions are always moderate and intelligent. Unmarried women of legal age and widows with the necessary qualifications are franklins of the first grade and share with men the appellate franchise."

“Pray what compensation do these different legislative officers receive?" I asked:
 
“Primary supervisors and magistrates receive one and two dollars a day respectively, the year round because they are constantly employed,” answered the professor. "Provincial deputies receive three dollars a day for the time they are in session, national senators receive four dollars and presidents get five dollars for their full time as do members of the supreme cabinet, for they are constantly employed. There is no mileage, as the railroads are owned by the state and it costs them nothing to travel.”
 
"Five dollars a day for the president of a great nation!” The statement fairly took my breath.
 
"That is very munificent pay.” said my friend, “but as they give up all other business as well as their homes, and have to reside at the capitol, it is not considered too much, though their labor is intrinsically worth no more than that of the man who lays brick or shovels dirt."

“This is indeed a remarkable government!" I exclaimed.
 
"My fellow countryman.” said the professor rising. “I have the kindest memories of your country, for it is the land of my birth. But you have a very imperfect system of government. It is by no means representative and admits of more corruption than could exist under an intelligent despotism. It has been so with all previous attempts at popular government. It is an elastic system and heretofore with boundless territory and immense unused resources, it has been adequate. Congestion in the state as in the human body is fatal and you will ultimately reach a period of congestion. The great billows in mid-ocean roll grandly on without danger and without noise, save a deep soothing murmur. It is only when they reach their outmost bounds and dash themselves on the rock hound coast to be thrown back in broken, foaming masses, that the angry roar of the breakers is heard, sending terror to the heart of the mariner. As long as you have, unoccupied territory for your increasing tides of population to flow out upon, your people will have homes and as long as the majority of them have homes and property, you are safe, for it is the illusion of all partially civilised people that the object and end of government is to protect property. But under your system, the time will come when comparatively few people will own most of the property and control the means of subsistence: then, they will logically combine for mutual protection and aggression and learning the terrible power of combination, will inevitably throttle the spirit of liberty and crush the life blood out of your people. On the other hand, a few men in whom the love for wealth and power has extinguished the love of liberty and their fellow men, owning all the wealth and by the power of that wealth controlling production, transportation, legislation, everything! On the other hand, millions of people only a few generations re-moved from the noblest and most heroic ancestors reduced to the conditions of serfs! Aye, to even a worse condition, for the medieval serf might work and fight for his master, but with your hundred handed machinery to produce and the blind greed which will deprive the masses of the power to consume, their services will be dispensed with. Their labor will not he required and there is nothing their masters will want them to fight for as they will possess everything. There is the picture for you, sir; heartless greed, oppression, ill-gotten wealth fortified by legislation and protected by hired minions on one side, and on the other, millions who cry for the opportunity to earn bread! And if you want it shaded, there is dynamite and gunpowder and gorgeous combustible villas, all great smoke makers!’

My companion had been pacing the floor excitedly as he poured out these burning words, but now stopping before me his mood suddenly changed and he smiled broadly. “Why bless me. I am talking to you as though your destiny was bound up in the United States and you were going back there next week, when as a matter of fact we are, both of us, absolutely cut off and that country is no more to us than the lost Atlantis or the cities of the plain! Come. I don’t know how you feel, but this great outflow of words seems to have left a void that reminds me that it is about the hour for lunch.” Stepping to the ubiquitous transmitter he gave some orders about a carriage and I heard him say something about a two seater at the hour of fourteen. Passing out of the building we walked through the handsome grounds of Capitol square and had barely reached the Boulevard that surrounded it when a light carriage came whizzing down upon us, in which we took our seats and were propelled swiftly to my friend’s house in the suburbs.

“I have been greatly interested in what you have told me about your government.” I said as we rode along, “but one thing you did not explain I would like to know, and that is how the lots are cast which elects one man to office out of the great number of candidates."

“Now." said my friend." by a fortunate circumstance, you can have an opportunity of seeing just how it is done, as a magistrate has recently resigned in one of the commonwealths of this province to accept a position in the sub-treasury at Aegia in the province of Vandalia and if you remember, there was an item in the news current this morning which stated that an election would be held tomorrow to fill the vacancy occasioned by the supervisor taking his place. It is only about an hour's run on the Ironia and Olympian railway and you can go down and see it for yourself which will be better than any description you could have of it.”
 
It was accordingly arranged that I should run down the next morning and take it in.

When we arrived at the house of my friend, I found a gentleman waiting for me with a tape line and a book of cloth samples who was introduced as a very capable furnisher. I learned that my host had asked him to call and take my measure for an outfit. I went up to my room with the outfitter and was surprised at the excellent quality of his samples, there being no shoddy or inferior goods in the lot. I intimated to him that as I had a very complete wardrobe and as the period of my sojourn in that, country was uncertain. I did not desire anything expensive, preferring something rather, of good appearance without regard to durability. The smiling’ tailor told me though, that he had no goods that would not wear for years, all being equally well made and the only difference being in the weight of the material, Inspecting a piece of black casimer. I asked him if he could guarantee the dye to retain the lustre, and to my astonishment was informed that he did not handle any dyed cloths at all, everything he had being in the natural colour of the wool, which included every shade of handsome suitings of the finest and firmest texture. Remarking the excellence of the quality. I volunteered the compliment that his factories evidently turned out better goods than ours, whereupon he informed me that every piece was woven by hand and that there was not a cloth factory in the republic! In the meantime, I had made my selection and he was engaged in taking my measure.

"Do you mean to tell me,” I asked with astonishment, “that a nation so far advanced as yours does not use machinery in the manufacture of cloth?” “None at all.” was the reply. “They used to, long before my time, but under the republic no factories are allowed.”

“And do you weave this cloth, or do you have to go around and find it among the private individuals who weave it?” I asked.
 
“Oh, I simply go to the Government Exchange, which takes it from the weavers, and get what I want.” 

“Does the government speculate in this cloth or simply store it and sell it for the weavers?”
 
“The government does not speculate on anything,” replied the outfitter. “It takes this cloth, giving the weaver in exchange, the price established by the bureau of Subsistence, which is based on the weight and weave of the goods. It is then sold to whoever wants it at a slight advance which is the seignior age,
or principal source of revenue for the support of the state.”
 
“Then there is no competition.” I remarked. “I suppose the prices for the different grades are purely arbitrary with this bureau.”
 
“No, the price of nothing is arbitrary,” returned the tailor. “The value of everything being fixed by the average cost of production, as ascertained by the bureau in the most careful and scientific manner.” 

“There must be,” said I, “some unsaleable goods made, as there is in my country: does the exchange have to take them at the production price, regardless of what they will sell for.” “'The exchange sometimes has goods that will not sell for the established price by reason of their undesirability, damage
in storage, or other causes. When that is the case, they are cut to the selling point. It frequently happens too, especially with agricultural productions, that the price of one article is reduced, while that of other things, which compete with it or displace it, is raised. The bureau has all of that in hand and the business is reduced to a science. The exchange also has the right to reject anything and so producers keep in touch with it and thus know what the public demand is for."

Here was another field opened up to my curiosity which I would have liked very much to explore by further questioning, but my outfitter did his work expeditiously and lunch was waiting. At the table I introduced the subject and asked why the manufacture of cloth by machinery was prohibited in the Iron Republic. “We prohibit the use of machinery in the making of cloth," answered my host, "for the same reason that we do in the manufacture of every-thing else that the people can supply without the aid of
machinery: that is, that there may be work for all."

“Do I understand that you have no manufactures at all?" I asked.
 
"Not that we have none at all, but none for the manufacture of any article that can be applied on sufficient quantity to meet the demand, without the use of machinery. This list includes fabrics of almost every description, shoes, hats, head wear, furniture, rope, agricultural implements and products,
vehicles, in fact almost everything that we use."

"And the purpose of this is that there may be work for all to do?"

“That is the purpose." replied my host, "and the purpose is accomplished, for as it requires the work of all to supply the wants of all, there is no enforced idleness in this republic."

But said I, with a disposition to argue every point, one man with a machine can do the work of a hundred and it seems to me that with your admirable political conditions, you might well employ the use of machinery, thereby giving the people more time for recreation and the improvement of the mind.” ‘‘Certainly there is great temptation to use a machine that will do the work of a hundred men.” replied my host, “and if the hundred men were the beneficiaries of its efficiency, there could be no excuse for not using it. You employ labor saving machinery in the United States, and where it does the work of a hundred or a thousand men do they get the benefit of it?” I could not say that they did.
 
“As a matter of fact,” continued my host, “does anybody derive any benefit except the owners of the ma-chine?" I was obliged to confess that they were the only direct beneficiaries, but that the cost of production was lessened, which of course, must be to the advantage of all.

“Ah. my friend!” exclaimed the professor, “I very much fear that your argument is influenced by your legal training, for it is palpably one sided, being predicated on the assumption that a machine doing the work of a hundred men, lessens the price of its products without diminishing the purchasing power of the hundred men who have been deprived of work by it. Now’ let us come down to practical illustration. You use machinery in the manufacture of shoes; to what extent does it lessen labor and cost?" “Very much indeed," I answered warming up to the advantage 1 thought I saw. “With improved machinery and a division of labor. I have been informed that a man can make a pair of shoes every seven minutes, at a cost of thirty cents." “Very well; if you are not positive though as to the accuracy of your data, we will allow some latitude and say they make a pair in twelve minutes, at a cost of fifty cents. That will be
fifty pairs in a day of ten hours. Your man with the machine then has done the work of fifty men. What pay does he receive?” “From the best of my information an average of about two dollars per pay." I replied." Your man is paid two dollars a day and turns out a product that sells for $25 in” “Oh no!” I interrupted, “that costs $25 to make." “I see," said my host smiling: “this is the cost of making. Now what do these shoes sell for?"

"I should say an average of $1.50.”
 
“Ah! Then this man does the work of fifty men and turns out a product, that is worth $100 more than the cost of production. Who gets this $100.” asked my host laying down his fork and looking across the table at me with an air of affected simplicity.

“The man or company that owns the machine, I suppose,” I answered slightly nettled.
 
“Then the forty-nine men whose work has been done for them do not come in except in the matter of increased time for recreation! But what surprises me most,” my host went on, “is that these shoes can be made for fifty cents and sold for $150. How is this feat, so contrary to the laws of competition
accomplished?”
 
“In the first place,” I answered, “our manufacturers combine to maintain prices among themselves and in the second place we
have a tariff which brings the imported article up to that price.”
 
“So!” exclaimed my host, “I begin to comprehend your system which I presume was the same when I left the country, but as I was quite a young man and had never paid much attention to such matters. I retain no knowledge on the subject. Now let us look into this system in its practical application. Here is a
machine that in one day with the application of one man’s labor does the work of fifty men, thereby depriving forty-nine men of the opportunity to work. In the value of the product it turns out, it earns the wages of fifty men and yet all that labor gets out of it is the paltry sum of $2 or not enough to pay for
the result of fifteen minutes of its time, the balance going to the owner of the machine. So while flesh and blood and brains and skill earns $2 for labor, wood and iron and steel earns $50 for capital! And this wonderful machine too, in all probability, is the product of skill and labor at the same miserable wage! Is this system conducive to an equitable distribution of wealth among the people? Does it not rather impoverish the forty-nine men whose work is done by the machine and enrich one man who gets the value of fifty men’s work for the price of one?”
 
I could not deny so logical a conclusion.

“Now in the Iron Republic,” continued the professor, “where machinery is not allowed to supplant labor, to produce fifty pairs of shoes in one day would probably require the work of fifty men and the value of their product would be divided among them. So the question resolves itself into this proposition; which is better, to let fifty men earn one dollar apiece, or to let two men earn $100, (one of whom works while the other keeps books), of which amount the working man gets $2 while the bookkeeper gets the balance?”
 
The proposition did not admit of debate, but I could not refrain from remarking that it seemed a pity that fifty men should labor a day to accomplish what an inanimate machine might do without toil or fatigue.

"Not necessarily,” retorted my host. “In appearance and according to the ethics of industrial economy, there could be no objection to the machine doing the work of fifty men if the fifty men got the benefit of its work. And yet it is contrary to the Divine economy, as expressed in the Biblical injunction that man shall eat bread by the sweat of his brow, and like every other human practice that runs contrary to the Divine order, is harmful in its results and I think your system must demonstrate it. Notwithstanding the use of machinery, you doubtless have a large number of men who are steadily and permanently employed; now which makes the best showing, mentally and morally, this steadily employed class, or the unemployed or partially employed class whose time for recreation and the improvement of the mind has been increased by the use of machinery?” I was compelled to confess that the employed class took precedence both in point of intelligence and morals, I remarked too, that it was a disappointing fact that our public libraries, night schools and other institutions founded for the benefit and elevation of the masses, were least patronised by those of most leisure. “It is not strange,” said my host. “The reasonable employment of the body, prepares the mind for recreation. A man’s mind though, especially if it be not well cultivated, having nothing to employ it but recreation, grows bad just as most boys do who have nothing to do but play. The universe is founded on a plan and that plan contemplates that every man shall work. The man, who does not, suffers and society suffers by him. There are no exceptions to this rule.”
 
“I confess that you have had the better of me all along.” said I, “but you are certainly mistaken when you say that there are no exceptions to this rule, for many of our most intelligent and virtuous men are those who have grown vastly rich from the results of other men’s labor. I may say most generous also, for in my country hundreds of churches, colleges, libraries and other beneficent institutions stand as monuments to this virtue in them today.” “Undoubtedly." assented the professor, “and yet I must remind you in the first place that a man who becomes a millionaire from the increment of other men’s labor, can be no idler, for the mere keeping up with his business and getting the lion’s, tiger's and wolf’s share of the product of the labor employed by him, will keep him busy. And in the second place when a man makes gifts with money obtained that way, is such generosity in any manner different from that of Robin Hood, who robbed one class and gave to another? Is it even as commendable, for the old highwayman invariably took from the rich and gave to the poor, at the worst doing evil that good might come, by contributing to the equalisation of wealth, while your millionaires take from the poor and give in such a way as to enhance their reputation, this being the only thing to be desired after having acquired more money than they can use in promoting their pleasures. From my point of view, there is no more generosity in such actions than there was in Trajan’s lavish expenditure on his tomb. I think you will find too, that the sons of these millionaires who inherit the money without the training that came with its accumulation, will suffer and make society suffer, thus proving the old Bible doctrine that the sins of the parents are visited on the children unto the third and fourth generation.”
 
“That doctrine may be true in theory,” I replied laughing “but in my country the first generation usually exhausts the possibility of the evil by getting rid of the root of it.”
 
“In as far as the money itself may contribute directly to the evil,” assented my host;” but a life of profligacy and dissipation made possible by inherited wealth may leave a train of evils behind it extending to generations unborn."

“Then you regard wealth as an evil, do you?” I asked.
 
“I certainly regard wealth as a most prolific source of evil and where it is acquired in the manner we have been discussing, that is, where a poor man is required to make shoes for a rich man for fifty cents and then pay $1.50 for the same shoes for himself and family to wear, it is an evil per se. You say this is partly the result of legislation and if it is, yours is a government of the minority, for there must be fewer rich, than poor men.” “I grant what you say,” I replied. “Government is of, for and by the rich, always has been and probably always will be, because wealth is power. But it does not necessarily follow that for that reason it is bad. In the co-operation of mind and matter in the affairs of human government as in everything else, mind must predominate. In predominating, it secures the conditions of life most favorable to itself and thus extends its sphere, as in an exploring party a few men by getting more than their share of food arc enabled to penetrate faster and further than their comrades. But as they blaze the way they open up, it is easier for the rest to follow; and so I believe the world has been the gainer by the very inequalities and injustice, which you condemn. In its age long and worldwide advance, the human mind has not marched in a phalanx. Under favoring conditions the strongest and boldest have broken away and led the advance, scaling walls to others impregnable and climbing heights inaccessible to the average and placing beacon lights to make the ascent easier for those that follow.”
 
"My dear sir,” exclaimed the professor, "your figure is very pretty, but I think it is so only because of the beautiful words in which you have clothed it. Skill in the art of dressing may be made to hide many defects,” (with a sly glance at the ladies.) but I am not going to be taken in by mere external appearances. It is not your figure I find fault with but your logic. Let us state your proposition in the form of a syllogism and proceed logically. Major premise: — In its advancement, mind will secure to itself the conditions most favorable to its expansion; minor premise. — but wealth is most favorable to the expansion of the mind; conclusion, it is therefore by the aid of wealth that the human mind has advanced to its present wonderful stage of development. Is this a fair and logical statement of the proposition?” I admitted that it was.
 
Very well; then I dispute your minor premise and deny your conclusion,” said my host p ositively. “Wealth is not favorable to the expansion of the mind and for its wonderful development it acknowledges no financial obligation whatsoever. Under the patronage of wealth which was to be the gainer by its product, mind has wrought some of its most beautiful creations and in modem times




 
wealth has supplied in some instances tools to facilitate its work; but in the main, money has rather been the enemy of mind, and wealth, whether supporting monarchical extravagance, religious bigotry or personal vanity and ambition, has tended to suppress rather than promote the highest and noblest qualities of the human mind. Its sublimest efforts have been achieved in poverty, in exile, in dungeons even, and as for scaling walls impregnable and climbing heights inaccessible, and planting beacon lights for others, as per your pretty figure, the most gifted men have gone to the stake or scaffold, because power, which has always been synonymous with wealth did not approve.”
 
I began to get warm in the collar, for though I had engaged in the discussion more for information than argument, the ease and skill with which my opponent had met and defeated me at every point, aroused all of the belligerency of my nature. But what made it more exasperating too, the ladies seemed to be deeply interested listeners and caught every point.

“Since you have appealed to Caesar,” said I, “unto Caesar will we go. If you resort to logic, I will meet you with your own weapon and state another syllogism for you to disprove. Major premise; in all times wealth and power have been used to repress and retard the development of the mind; minor premise, but it is in the nature of mind to resist oppression and its mightiest energies have been aroused in this resistance; conclusion; therefore wealth and power have unwittingly contributed to the development and expansion of the mind!”
 
“Very neatly turned!” cried the professor, while the ladies smiled and Miss Helen even infringed the neutrality law's by clapping her hands. “Then your position,” continued my host, “is that everything which opposes the advancement of the mind really facilitates its development?”
 
“Not precisely. Everything which arouses the resistance and overcoming instinct of the mind,” I returned.

“The point is well taken and strongly stated,” conceded the professor. “but, what wealth and power has contributed to the development of the mind by such direct oppression as to arouse resistance and wake its slumbering energies, is slight in comparison with the blight and stag¬ nation induced by war, financial oppression and industrial wrongs.”
 
"You charge these things to wealth then?"

"I do, most unqualifiedly,” responded my host. "Homer would have us believe that the Trojan War was fought for love, but the wars of history have been for wealth and power.”
 
"I make the point on you,” I returned, “that the poorest nations have been the least intelligent and that industrial wrongs have always been greatest where ignorance has been grossest. I think that history will sustain me in the further assertion, that war has been the great civiliser of the world.”
 
“Incontrovertible statements, all,” asserted my opponent,” and incorrect only as they confuse cause and effect; if the poorest nations have been the least intelligent, they were the poorest because they were the least intelligent and not unintelligent because they were poor. If industrial wrongs have been greatest where ignorance has been most dense, it is simply because the people being ignorant were least able to defend themselves against industrial wrongs. If civilisation has been a product of war, it is a bi-product and resulted because notwithstanding the barbarity and inhumanity of the wars, they brought different peoples together and the knowledge of different nations, by amalgamation, was enlarged. War itself is debasing to the human mind.”
 
“I take issue with you on that," said I hotly. “War may be destructive but it is not debasing. War may be cruel, but cruelty calls forth nobility. War may make widows and orphans, but it also makes heroes, and liberty and patriotism have been fructified by all the blood the earth has ever drunk!"

"And what has been the liberty of the world,” my friend asked scornfully, "but the illusion which people cherish when they have exchanged one set of masters for another? And what is the patriotism of the world but that savage and senseless prejudice which is cultivated by teaching the fools of nation to hate
the fools of other nations? And when the fools of two nations have been set by the ears by their rulers, they tight and maim and kill — and this is called glorious war!”
 
"I beg a truce!" I cried, seeing that my venerable host felt deeply on the subject, while I was merely endeavoring to hold up my end of the argument." I find that I am no match for you Iron Republicans. I have only en-countered these accomplished ladies, yourself and Professor Hallam, and on the subjects of dress, industrial economy and music I find that I know nothing; am eliminated, obliterated. In other words, to use an Americanism. I am not in it, and hereby surrender, foot horse and dragoons. I cannot offer you my sword for I presume there is no such thing in this model republic."

"They were all beaten into plow-shares long since," answered my friend smiling good humouredly, “so that formality will have to be dispensed with. I am generous though in victory and will pay you the compliment to say that if your cause was worthy of your prowess, the result might be different. In all contests though, the justice of a cause is not less an element of strength than the greatness of cannon and sharpness of steel." I bowed my acknowledgement of the compliment and indulged the hope that I might yet find some vulnerable point in the Iron Republic, if for nothing else than to redeem myself in the fair eyes that had witnessed my discomfiture.

"I think you are entirely too magnanimous in professing defeat,” said Miss Morris, taking part in the conversation for the first time and looking at me with her beautiful eyes beaming with interest. “If you are not too proud to accept an humble ally,” (I bowed again.) “I venture to suggest that the enemy,"(smiling and flashing a glance at her father,) “may attribute his victory — if indeed he has won it — to the fact that the fighting was all in his own territory where he was entrenched. It is my opinion, if I am worthy to be admitted to a council of war that you run up the white flag too soon." “With the glorious prospect such a promising alliance opens up to me,” I replied facetiously but with a peculiar thrill of gratification. “I hasten to pull down the flag of defeat and beg that you will advance into the breach.’’ “Well.” said my fair ally, “I reopen the attack by the assertion that it was not alone in bringing the nations into closer intercourse that war has exerted a civilising and elevating influence on the human mind. I believe that the highest and noblest thoughts of the peaceful present, owe their origin to the high and noble deeds of a past made glorious by war.”
 
“Tut. tut.” exclaimed her father, "the romances of history and Sir Walter Scott have corrupted your mind.”
 
“Kindled rather.” retorted my ally with a vigour that proved she was in earnest. ”I acknowledge my indebtedness to history and Sir Walter and when I read of the deeds of Couer de Lion and Ivanhoe, even of Dalgetty and Debracy, I cannot abide the goody goodliness of a big nation like this that works and eats and slumbers like an ox. What would be the history of the world today if the Iron Republic had been founded on the Babylonian empire and its principles had received worldwide acceptances? Try to think of a history of the world without an Alexander or Caesar or Frederick the Great, or Bonaparte or Washington. Without a Marathon or Thermopylae, without Crusades or Couer de Lion!”
 
I was surprised at the energy with which these words were uttered and suspected that the strong feeling that prompted them must have been long repressed. My host looked astonished and Mrs. Morris turned to her daughter with a glance of concern as though she had suddenly discovered in her traces of
insanity.

“The history of the world, my dear,” said her father after a moments silence, "we may not alter or amend and perhaps would not if we could. It is with the world’s life as with a man’s: the excesses, dissipations and sins of early years cannot be blotted out and the experience of them may even serve to enhance the virtues of maturer age. Sometimes such experiences become the foundation of a nobler and more purposeful life and then they may he recalled without regret. But it is a poor life that does not improve with age and the world's life will be unrounded and incomplete if it is not profited by the knowledge and experience of the past.” It is not in me to controvert these words so seriously and truly spoken, but with my new ally, I was in the predicament of the man in the Indian fable, who made an alliance with the tiger and found, after he had bound himself with thongs to that unconquerable beast, that he could not run away when he would.

"I trust you will not be angry with me father, if I seem to dispute with you,” replied Miss Helen with un - yielding firmness, “but can that have been wholly bad in the past, which is the source of all that is most beautiful in the present? What is the inspiration of poetry and all great thoughts but the high deeds which you impute to the recklessness of the world’s youth? War is cruel, but does not its very cruelty provoke nobler sacrifices — as Mr. Barrington has said — and a more exalted heroism than the piping
herdsmen of Utopia ever dreamed of? And may it not be in the plan of creation that sunshine and
storm, tears and laughter, love and hate, war and peace, shall alternate like day and night to the end of
time?”
 
“My daughter,” answered her father gravely. “I am grieved at the low estimation in which you seem to hold your country, and that condition which has been the desire of the ages, but you are entitled to your opinions and I would not have you repress them in deference to me. It is my faith though, that the plan of creation contemplates the ultimate elimination of hate and strife and all evil whatsoever. And though he may not appeal to youth and a romantic imagination. the piping herdsmen of Utopia, who tends his flocks and lives in peace, with clean hands and an up-right heart, is to me, a nobler example of God's creation than any medieval swashbuckler that ever drew sword or broke lance to win the silly fancy of a foolish lady love. To my mind Professor Hallam, who would walk around a block rather than tread upon a worm, is a greater man than Couer de Lion ever was, from every intelligent point of view."

“It may be wrong and wicked.” cried the beautiful woman vehemently, with flashing eyes and flushed face, “and if it is I can’t help it and I don’t care; but I am tired to death of this dreary monotony of peace and prosperity, and the ring of a spearhead upon a breastplate or the clash of swords in a glorious cause would make sweeter music for me than all the piping herdsmen of Utopia. — or all the fiddlers of Ironia, for that matter.” and bursting into tears she rose hastily from the table and left the room. “Well I’ll declare!” exclaimed my host pushing back his chair. “Who can solve the female enigma?”

I could not, but the one under consideration had gratified me exceedingly by her strange conduct, though I could not tell exactly why. It is said that women are past finding out and I have never been a careful investigator. but without understanding it. the contemptuous reference to the “fiddlers of Ironia” braced me up immensely.
 
With a woman’s penetrati on, probably Mrs. Morris saw further into the matter than any of us and saying something about girls heads being filled with romance she left the table also and followed her daughter from the room. The meal had been concluded some time before, and as Miss Morris’ unexpected denouement — if the word may be used here, had very naturally put an end to the conversation, my host led the way and we adjourned to the library.

Ten or fifteen minutes after leaving the dining room we were made aware by the ringing of a gong that the carriage had arrived and looking out I saw a handsome vehicle with two seats besides the driver's, standing at the door. My host called for the ladies and they came down immediately. Miss Helen blushed as she entered the room and approaching her father with downcast eyes, kissed him on the cheek. “How now, my young renegade, what means this treason to your country?” he exclaimed holding' her face between his hands and looking at her with mock severity.

“It simply means that the country is all right Ma Pere, but that I am not ready for the millennium," she replied smiling faintly and with that she turned on me a glance that made my heart bound and I mentally snapped my fingers at the “fiddlers of Ironia." There was something in that glance which said plainer than words, that there was a bond between us and the alliance would be continued. She was attired for the drive in a blue flannel gown buttoned to the throat like an English riding habit, with jaunty cap, and gloves to match. Her mother was similarly dressed in a dark brown suit, and without delay we passed out to the carriage. 

As we stood by the carriage, while my host was giving the motorman directions as to the course of the drive. Mrs. Morris remarked that I had best sit on the back seat with the professor, as looking forward; it gave a better opportunity for observation. The seats faced each other and whether it was by accident or design.

(I hoped the latter,) her mother had no sooner spoken the words than Miss Helen stepped forward and placed her foot on the step to enter the carriage. I helped her in and her mother after her and then at another lightning like flash of those wonderful eyes which conveyed more meaning than any mere words. I entered the carriage and took my seat opposite to her. Professor Morris followed taking his seat by my side and as I looked into the face of the peerless woman before me, so chaste and beautiful, with just the suggestion of a fine scorn in the curve of the exquisitely chiseled mouth and drooping eyelids. I felt that but for the presence of others, I must have fallen on my knees before her. If Cupid had let me pass through all the years be- fore, unscathed, he was atoning for his dereliction by a most extraordinary display of archery, for with every glance of those glorious eyes an arrow seemed to quiver in my heart.
Never having experienced the sentiment, sensation — or whatever it is — of love, my resources in that direction were untouched and I came to it like a strong man to a race. I had known this woman less than two days and already I felt as if I had known and loved her for years, so impressed upon my heart was every feature of her face and every speaking glance of those marvelous unfathomable eyes. Indeed, by some strange consciousness it began to dawn upon me that I had looked upon that face and into those eyes before. Was there truth in the theosophical philosophy of Plato, or had I seen her in a dream? It seemed incredible to me that I had looked upon her for the first time, only the day be- fore. It could not be! I could not in so short a time have become so familiar with every lineament and every changing expression of quick intelligence.

When we left my friend's door, we did not go towards the capitol but in another direction, through streets I had not seen before. The houses were unpretentious as a rule, built of brick and stone mostly and everywhere there was an appearance of comfort without ostentation. We passed through miles of shaded streets, by fountains and monuments, through parks and pleasure grounds, finding everywhere beauty, cleanliness and evidences of prosperity. We passed houses of the most distinguished men of the nation, including those of the president, members of the Supreme Cabinet and others eminent for their achievements in the field of science and letters, and there was no noticeable difference between them and the residences of ordinary citizens. There seemed to be no aristocratic quarter and when I proposed to turn through the slums and succeeded in making myself understood. I was informed that there was no slums and nothing corresponding to them.

“Have you then reached that ideal social state where you have no poor?" I asked.
 
“We have at least reached that ideal social state where we have no rich.’’ answered the professor.
 
“Indeed! Do you mean to say that you have no wealthy class at all?”
 
“More." replied my host: “that we have no wealthy person at all."
 
“What!” I exclaimed: “not a single rich man in the entire republic?
 
“Not a single rich man, woman or child in the entire republic and never can be,” was the answer.
 
"I shall not argue about this,” I remarked after a few minutes reflection, "and whether or not it is a desirable condition, it is certainly a peculiar one for a country like this, that seems to be blessed, not only with material resources of every description, but with the skill and energy to utilize them to the last degree. Will you explain to me why it is that in such a country a man of industry and good judgment does not grow rich as elsewhere in the world.” "For the same reason that a man does not lift himself over a stile by the straps of his boots,” answered the professor facetiously. “Simply because it is a feat impossible of accomplishment.”
 
"But why? The conditions seem to be most favourable. ”
 
"In the first place." said the professor." if it were not for debt, interest and unearned increment, men could not become rich even where they are not restrained: and in the second place, here, where we have none of these evils, we anticipate the possibility of such a thing by legislation which renders it impossible.” "But that is what I wish to understand: how do you evade these evils as you call them, on the one hand and anticipate them on the other?"

“Well.” replied the professor, "besides having no debt, interest or un-earned increment, which condition itself is a bar to wealth, we have a graduated income tax which would reach the point of confiscation before even moderate wealth, according to your standards, is attained. For in-stance, all incomes above 800 diems, are taxed ten per cent, and ten per cent, for every additional four hundred diems, which limits the income to forty four hundred diems, for at that point the tax takes the whole. You see this tax limits incomes to a possible sum of twelve hundred diems.”

“But,” said I, “without asking it argumentatively, how can you, who are such a stickler for justice in the abstract, justify this confiscation of a man’s property, when, as you claim, your system is so perfect that it cannot be acquired by dishonest methods.

“Theoretically, it is unjust," assented the professor, “but the object of a truly enlightened government is not so much to vindicate any ethical code, as to secure the happiness and welfare of its citizens. If a particular bull should grow horns so much longer than the rest of the herd as to put it at its mercy, he should be dehorned although it might seem cruel! not because he had acquired his weapons unjustly, but because having them puts it in his power to be unjust. We have ideal political conditions and I cannot conceive how a man with any amount of money here, could use it to the detriment of others, but you remember Alexander's boast that no city was impregnable to him, into which he could introduce an ass laden with gold.”
 
“When you stated just now that you had no such things as debt, interest and unearned increment." I remarked. “I take it that you intended to convey the idea that these were practical nullities above the limit fixed by your income tax. Below that limit I presume a man may use his money in the way that will yield the largest returns.”
 
“He may use it in any legitimate way,” was the answer. “That is, he may buy commodities or employ labor or engage in any enterprise that does not conflict with the statutes. My statement though was absolutely true; there is no such thing as debt, interest and unearned increment even in the most limited sense.”
 
“Then you have no credit system at all?" I asked.
 
“Our people do not know the meaning of the word credit, when applied to commercial transactions,” replied the professor. A man cannot become a debtor or creditor because the law does not recognise any such conditions. The nearest approach to it is the binding force of contracts, but the statutes have been so carefully framed that the obligations of con-tracts cannot be made to partake of the nature of debt. There being no such thing as debt, there can of course be no such thing as interest. And as by the national exchange system, nothing can be sold for more than the average cost of production, one man cannot make much money off of another man's labor."

“It seems then, that one object of your government is to keep the people poor!" “The object.” answered the professor, "is not to keep the people poor, but to keep them in such a condition of equality that one class cannot take advantage of another, but wealth and poverty arc purely relative terms and it cannot be said that the object is any more to keep them all poor than to make them all rich. And when I said that we had no rich people. I meant according to your standard and that of the old world. In the truest sense, our people arc for the most part all rich, having a country abounding with resources of every kind which have been utilized, and being protected from taxes, interest and every form of oppression that could rob them of the fruits of their labor."

"And do you mean to say that you have no taxes either?" I asked in-credulously. "Practically none." my friend answered. "We have a graduated income tax, but only in theory as there is no opportunity for its application and it was only enacted to guard against unforeseen contingencies. There is a tax too, on all unused land of five per cent, of what it is cap-able of producing that being what the state would get from it if it was cultivated. But as this results in the government owning all of the unused land and as any citizen can take possession of and hold all that he can use, free of charge to himself his heirs and assigns forever, that tax is practically inoperative.” "Really." I exclaimed, "the more I learn of this wonderful country, the more I am amazed! But if you have no taxes tell me how this model government is supported."

"The bureau of subsistence and the department of public utilities supply the means necessary for the expenses of the government." answered the professor. "Will you explain to me how this is done?" I asked. "It certainly must be a very complicated system."

"On the contrary." replied the professor, “it is so extremely simple that every merchant and farmer in your country puts it in practice in the conduct of his business. Freight and passenger tariffs on the railroads, canals and navigable rivers and lighting, power, telephone and express services and franchises yield the department of public utilities a sufficient sum, together with the profits derived from the national exchange system, to meet all the expenses of government."

"I see." said I. "The profits of all this business go to the government."

“Yes, to the government." answered my friend, "for to use a fiction of this kind is a convenient way to express the aggregate ownership of the people.” "I can see but one difficulty.” I remarked, "and that is in adjusting these tariffs and profits, as it is impossible to tell what they will yield.”

"That presents no difficulties," was the reply, "as the tariffs and percent-ages for the ensuing year are based on the expenses of the government the year before. For instance, the total cost of operating the government last year was about two hundred million diems of which about five and a half millions are used in defraying the expenses of the government proper, and the balance in operating its ex-changes and utilities. Assuming that the business of these departments will be the same this year as last, it is a simple arithmetical problem to fix the tariffs to raise the necessary amount. As a matter of fact though, in making up the budget for any year, a very liberal margin is allowed and the excess thus accruing is expended by the department of progression in scientific experimentation and new utilities." “You say the actual cost of government last year, outside of running your railroads, exchanges and other utilities, was about five and a half million diems: what is a diem ?"

“It is the value of a day's work and is the unit of our financial system. It is about the value of an American dollar."

"And what is the population of the republic?”
 
"A little over fifty millions."

“It seems incredible,” said I. "that fifty millions of people can be governed for this sum and—"

“Say served for this sum!" interrupted the professor.

“Well served for that sum and I cannot understand it in any other light than that your people have advanced to a higher plane of intelligence and morality than the people of other countries." 

"It may be said without egotism that they have advanced to a somewhat higher plane of intelligence." said the professor, “for the results of it are here to show; but I do not think they are any better morally. Morality and religion is the surplus crop here, as in America and everywhere else. They do not rob and oppress because they have combined for mutual protection against each other.”




 
"The entire government seems to be run on the principles of a great trust or corporation," I remarked.

“That’s just exactly what it is." replied my friend. It
is the logical end and culmination of trusts and monopoly. It is a trust formed of the whole people for purposes of government, commerce, transportation, education and everything else that pertains to their welfare. The cost of the entire system in all its branches, operative, legislative, judicial, educational and penal, amounts to an impost of about five per cent, on commerce, while the tariffs for transportation and other public utilities probably does not exceed one-half of what they are in countries dominated by wealth." I had never had any commercial training, but I knew that it cost all the way from ten to one hundred per cent, of the value of any product in the United States to get it out of the hands of the producer and into those of the consumer. "What is the total business of this vast trust in all branches?" I asked.

"Something like four billions of diems." replied the Professor.

Fifty millions of people in one great trust! and that so organised and safe-guarded that no member could ever take advantage of another. I could scarcely conceive of such a thing, but it was extremely simple in theory and there it was, in successful operation right before my eyes.

"I am beginning to comprehend something of your wonderful scheme of government.” I remarked, "but as one of the first things I learned after leaving my ship was that you do not use metal money as a medium of ex-change. I am curious to learn some-thing of your financial system. How does your medium of exchange originate and on what is it based?"

"I believe." said the Professor, without answering my question, "that our financial system is as near perfect as anything of human origin can be."

"And do you not think your whole governmental scheme is perfect?" I asked in surprise.

“No indeed." replied my friend. "It is ideal in comparison with what has been accomplished in the world before, but the final perfect government is no government at all.”
 
"Why Professor, you cannot mean anarchy!" I exclaimed.

“O no,” he answered, "just no government. When people
become fully civilized and Christianized, and that narrow delusion called patriotism gives place to world-wide fraternalism, there will be no necessity for government or laws.”
 
“For goodness sake.” I cried, "leave something for heaven and hereafter! But this monetary system, tell me something about that."

"It is all comprehended in these propositions,” said the Professor. The value of anything is what it is worth to man; and it is honestly worth to one man what it costs another man to produce it. Value in a medium of exchange can only inhere when that medium is a commodity of intrinsic worth, or when it represents such a commodity, and then its value is exactly that of the article it represents.”
 
“Very well, go on.”
 
"Where there are no exchangeable commodities of value, there can be no honest medium of exchange because there is no exchangeable commodity for it to represent. Here, the value of everything is based on the average cost of production, and when it passes out of the hands of the producer, he is entitled to its value in anything else he may want. In a crude state of society this exchange is effected by bartering one article for the other directly, or by converting them into pieces of metal or other unscientific forms of ‘money’ of uncertain or arbitrary value and using it as a medium of exchange. But as this medium is an uncertain quantity, depending on the discovery of mines, the vagaries of legislation and the manipulation of the financiers who own and control it, commerce in all commodities becomes a mere shuttlecock in the hands of the money masters, and the value of everything, in their medium, is subject to their will. Under such conditions, it is not strange that in a country where plenty is produced for all. a few roll in wealth and luxury, while many suffer for the actual comforts of life. It is not strange either, that those who control the money are the ones that roll in wealth, while those who do all the work and produce all of the commodities grovel in want. This is the result of ignorance on the part of the producing masses and is about on a par with that fabled transaction in which were concerned two cats, a monkey and a piece of cheese. In the place of that crude and unjust system, the Iron Republic employs a scientific method that is just to all. The value of every product is scientifically fixed by the average cost of production, and when a man produces anything he delivers it to the great popular trust called the government and receives therefor its assientos, which are certificates of its value and deposit. As everything that is produced is placed in escrow just the same, these assientos are exchangeable for any other commodity on the same basis of value. These assientos then, are the circulating medium and not a diem of them can exist outside of the national exchange unless its value in some commodity exists within it. As long as there is a diem's worth of any commodity in the hands of the government exchange, there is outstanding, somewhere, a diem to represent that commodity. When that commodity is withdrawn for consumption the diem is absorbed by the government and the financial incident is closed. These assientos are numbered and dated and must go through the exchange once a year, either in exchange for commodities or new assientos, (they are re-issued every year), so if any are lost or destroyed, after the date of the annual funding they are made good to the loser, if he has preserved the numbers so that his loss can be identified. Under this system no great store of money can be hoarded anywhere, and there is no temptation in that direction as it cannot be made to yield interest or increment. In carrying out this great governmental trust, four billions of diem are issued and absorbed annually, and so the great financial tide ebbs and flows with the regularity and certainty of the tides of the ocean. Best of all, no man can receive value until he produces value, and so we have a great human hive in which there are no drones. This may seem to you a small volume of business for so large a nation, but as middlemen are practically eliminated and there is no wasteful competition, a mutual exchange of commodities is effected with much less trading than in your country.”
 
"And have you no merchants at all.” I asked.
 
“O yes.” was the answer, “we have a considerable number of men engaged in supplying the wants of the people, besides those employed at the exchange, but they can hardly be called merchants, as they are in reality caterers. They establish themselves in locations more convenient to the people of certain sections than the exchange and receive a small advance over the exchange prices merely on account of that convenience. The exchange fixes the price though of everything and the caterers are only paid enough more to pay for this convenience, as the exchange is open for all. Of course this applies only to the commodities that are handled in the exchange: there are many commodities, perishable goods, confectioneries and an endless variety of gimcracks that are not received into the exchange at all and are dispensed by the caterers.”

“Your absolute cash system undoubtedly saves a vast amount of loss and litigation.” said I, “but men are compelled to have accommodation or suffer, and that, it seems to me is where your system would work great hardship.”

“If there was no remedy,” replied the Professor, “it were still better that a few should suffer than many, but the system provides even against this. If a man has nothing he is a pauper, in the language of your country, and could not get accommodation there nor anywhere else. If he has non-perishable property of any kind though, here, he can go to the exchange in his commonwealth and get assientos to the amount of fifty per cent, of the value of the property without interest. Of course he must give a bond for this value signed by freeholders to protect the exchange against loss.”

“Referring to these assientos, is it not possible to counterfeit them?” I asked.

“It might be done." answered the Professor, “although they are printed on socially prepared paper, but as every man who passes one may be required to endorse it. It would be like counterfeiting a bank check in your country, which can be done by anybody. The penalty though, is severe, and as we have no idle class, there is no criminal class, and any kind of a misdemeanor is a rare occurrence in this country."

"I should think." I remarked, "that having to endorse these assientos in every small transaction would be
annoying."

"They are not used in small trans-actions," was the reply. "They may be deposited and converted into fractional currency at any post office."

"Indeed, and what are the denominations of your money?"

“Our lowest denomination is the milium, which represents five minutes labor. Then we have three minutes, six minutes, and the hora, which is supposed to represent an hours work and as a day's work here is eight hours, the hora is worth about twelve and a half cents in your money. Above this, we have the quarter diem, half diem and diem. In the larger denominations there are one. two three, five and ten diems. Money here represents labor and labor is made the basis, or unit, if I may use that term, of its value. Twelve minimis make a hora: eight horas make a diem."

While this conversation, so dry and uninteresting to the ordinary reader, was going on, many places of interest were pointed out to me and I was keenly alive to the beauties of the city through which we were rapidly propelled. Afterwards we passed out into the country, where on every hand were the same evidences of prosperity I had seen in the city. Modest but comfortable houses, paved roads, every resource of nature taxed to the last degree to sub serve the convenience of man.

"It must have taken a great while." I remarked, "for people to reduce the art of living to this point of perfection."

"On the contrary." replied my friend, "the change was wrought in a very few years. When the people found that it paid to live in this intelligent, scientific way and the spirit of reform got in the air, they went at it with a vim." 

We were going through a pleasant, shady lane, on one side of which were some cattle standing under the trees and on the other, a man plowing in a field with a horse —the first I had seen. We were yet some distance from the farmhouse when hearing a humming noise behind us I looked around and saw a box or a car about as long and thick and about half as wide as a square piano running towards us on two cables stretched on poles. I had noticed these cables and a lot of other wires but I had not learned all of their uses. "Here's another new one on me!" I cried, standing up in the carriage to see the thing go by.

"That is the rural express," said the Professor, laughing, and then he directed the motorman to keep up with it until we passed the farmhouse that I might have an opportunity to see it work if it should have something to deliver there. It was running about thirty miles an hour and we spurted along by it till it passed the house. The box or carrier ran eight or ten feet above the ground and when it reached a pole in front of the house, one of a number of knobs or cranks that projected from the side of it engaged a pin on the pole and several packages were thrust out of the rear end of it and dropped into a box-like receptacle attached to the pole just below. A gong was rung at the same time and a lady came out of the house, lowered the box with a pulley and took out the packages. This rural delivery, the Professor told me, was one of the newest of the public utilities and was just being introduced. It had proved a success and the department of progress intended to put them on throughout the Republic. They were run from the exchanges and post offices and carried, besides mail, packages up to twenty pounds weight. The cables also carried electric light and power currents and the carriers ran in circuits going on round and back to the starting point when empty. Several of them passed us while we were on the line of the circuit and were running continuously. This section of country was an elevated plateau and to the northward could be seen the blue outlines of the Illyrian hills.

The afternoon was perfect with an Indian summer haze, and as we traveled at the rate of about twenty miles an hour we traversed a wide extent of territory. Scenes of Arcadian beauty were spread out everywhere. and as I thought of the miserable hirelings and wage earners of America and the old world, the sweat shops and crowded tenements, the dwarfed and stunted lives that result from the mad struggle for wealth. I said feelingly. "I would to God the poor of my country could come here when they die; it would he heaven to them!"

What more could heaven be?" exclaimed the Professor, stretching out his hand toward the lovely undulating fields. “To live, to labor and to love! Is that not heaven? Un-harrowed by galling apprehension of poverty and want, walking the sweet sequestered vale of life and taking from the hands of all-providing, beneficent nature every good and beautiful thing that can minister to our wants, what more can heaven be than an endless continuation of the same? And this would be the condition of the whole world if men could learn the un-wisdom of selfishness or were but wise enough to combine for mutual protection against themselves!"

His wife gazed upon him with affectionate admiration, but the beautiful daughter looked away listlessly as though she were bored with it all. I felt, with a pang of disappointment, that this beautiful woman must after all be shallow and feeling less, but when, a moment later, she turned to me with a wistful look in her eyes and asked me if I did not think that if one had been born in heaven and had never lived anywhere else, they would grow tired of it, I comprehended something of the ennui that made life tiresome to her even in so blest a country. And again I snapped my fingers at the "fiddlers of Ironia," for said I to myself — although I knew little of the female heart — "no woman would become ennuied with this glorious country if she had really learned to love and the object of her love were here!"

We encountered motorcycles of every description and passed through several shires where the national ex-change buildings, post offices and public schools, looked like the buildings of some old barony or monastery of the middle ages, but with what a difference! These people were great and free with no feudal masters to fatten and fight, or shaveling priests to feast and fatten on the fruits of their toil. Each for all and all for each, not because they were more unselfish than their less fortunate fellowmen but because they had learned that only a few could be great and rich, and acting with the wisdom and power that belonged to the majority, they had mutually agreed that none should be rich and none great except in a noble and unselfish way that made the greatness of one the common heritage and pleasure of all.

Making a wide detour, we came to the Urbana river and followed its course back to the city. It was as picturesque as the Hudson but no palaces lined its banks. Modest and unpretending cottages, comfortable and adequate; many of them beautiful in design, but all simple and unostentatious, as though built more for use than to advertise the station of the owner, faced the wide boulevard that ran by the river like the long winding streets of an old fashioned American village. We had reached the great dam only a few miles from the city and stopped to look at the public buildings where the million-horse power of the mighty river was transmuted into that subtle, incomprehensible force that night and day, ran hundreds of miles of railroad, thousands of electric lights, rural express carriers, mills and other public utilities.

“See!” said the professor as the sun touched the horizon, a great ball of fire, “the grand old sun after lighting and warming us all day, will still by this water he has lifted from the sea, work for us all night!" It was beautiful. Far up the river to a distant bend, the water above the dam lay smooth and placid and flashed like silver. On one side, a steep wooded bank descended from the boulevard to the water's edge where were rustic seats and boathouses at intervals along. On the other side a wall of rock, perpendicular in some places, and seamed and serrated like the rough chased facade of some old giant's castle, rose sheer to the height of nearly a hundred feet, over the edge of which in some places fell great festoons of flowering vines.

”Those lovely banks." said the professor, after I had admired their picturesque beauty, "were once crowned with the villas of the manufacturing, commercial and financial barons of this country. The masses labored for them, the great river toiled for them. Now, where pretentious palaces once vied with each other to advertise their owner's wealth, stand the happy homes of a people who are neither masters nor slaves, and the great river too, is master less, for lo, it works for all!”
 
At this moment, the great sun dis-appeared behind the horizon and as the broad amber bars of light flashed up and expanded like flaming banners in the sky, a deep solemn chime of music came rolling grandly down from towards the city whose outlines could but dimly be discerned against the background of night that loomed behind. On came the music, stately and grand as became the time and scene. Sinking to deep sweet symphonies that seemed to breathe the spirit of blest contentment and repose anon it swelled to magnificent burst of glorious music that carried a note of exultation and triumph like the exulting pean of a worldwide victory of the ages. Unconsciously I uncovered my head under the spell of the divine nocturne and in every direction as far as I could see: on the boulevard or in boats upon the river, men stopped and listened reverentially as to the Angelus. For ten minutes the glorious strain swelled from the “tower of music.’’ rolled out over the fading landscape, and echoed and reverberated along the walls and cliffs of the winding river. And then ceasing, with flash, ten thousand electric lights punctuated the gathering darkness and the great city gleamed in flashing outline like the realisation of a fairy scene in a story of the Arabian Nights.

I looked at my host. His eyes were closed, he sat with such an expression of deep solemnity and peace upon his noble face, that I felt a thrill of awe as though in the presence of an inspired prophet of the olden time. I turned my eyes to the queenly woman that sat before me and the spell had worked not less powerfully on her. Her head was thrown back, her hands were clasped and from her half closed eyes the tears were running down her cheeks. That music was a man's soul, the soul of genius, lavishing itself on earthborn clods with such beauty and power as for the moment to make them too, feel that they were divine. And what was I in the presence of a spirit like this? In the exaltation of that moment, so gross a thing as jealousy could not abide and I felt myself a glowworm with the sunshine beating upon me.

“Fiddlers of Ironia!’’ Never again could I force my lips to frame those words. No one spoke save the motorman, who when the music ceased and the last rhythmic wave was lost in the darkening reaches of the river, uttered a deep “amen.” and at a signal from my host, pulled sharply on his lever and we shot away towards the city.

The critical reader may observe that the conversation and discussions just recorded are better suited to an industrial congress than a drawing room or carriage ride through a beautiful country in the company of beautiful women. But it must be re-membered that the astounding conditions by which I was surrounded were entirely new to me. It was as if a man should be born full grown into the wonders of the 20th century, and as a student and politician my environment impressed me no less by the wherefore than facts of its existence. 

When an inquisitive boy gets hold of a mechanical toy, he scarcely awaits to see it operate before going into it to see how it operates. And so, while I was charmed and enthused by my surroundings and interested in my companions, (deeply in one of them), the emotion of curiosity was upper-most in my mind. The facts of the existence of amazing facts were broadcast before me everywhere. The wherefore of their existence I was reaching after greedily. If I may use such an expression, the is-ness was like a world bathed in sunlight. The why-ness like cloud drifts breaking over the horizon and floating towards me.

All of us being somewhat fatigued with the long afternoon drive, we sat up only long enough after the evening repast to take a resume of the day and then retired. The next morning I held a conversation with Captain Brent over the telephone and then took the train for Aegia. The duties of his office prevented Professor Morris from accompanying me and I anticipated rather a dull ride, but I had no sooner entered my compartment than I discovered that I was in the company of an original character.

"Peace he unto you brother." said he as I took my seat opposite to him in the car.

"The same to you my friend." I replied, not knowing what else to say.

"Do you live in this God forsaken city of the plain?" he asked waving his hand in a general way towards the world outside.

"Only a temporary sojourner." said I. surprised at his words and the solemn tones of condemnation with which they were uttered.

"Even a temporary sojourn in Sodom will do you hurt my brother." said he sententiously "Come out from among them and be ye separate!" saith the Holy Book. Lot was only a temporary sojourner in the city of the plain, but if you will read his subsequent history in the Divine Allegory, you will admit that it could not have been any worse with him if he had lived there all his life. These things were written in the Divine Allegory for our guidance in real life and we do well to take heed lest we too partake of evil and so bring ruin upon us.”
 
“Sir.” I said looking at him in astonishment. “I am a stranger here and I must confess that your language is beyond my comprehension. If I may make bold to ask, who and what are you?”
 
"I perceive that you are indeed a stranger.” remarked the man with an unconscious swell of pride in his voice, "or you would not need to ask that question. I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness 'prepare ye the way of the Lord, make His paths straight!' My name is Moses and I am the founder and head of the Zionists. Unto us is committed the work of repairing the broken down walls that the people may go in and out in peace. Have you not read the 'Torchlight of Truth'? I assured him that I had never seen it.

“Aha!” he cried, clenching his fist and shaking it at the universe at large. "The powers of darkness conspire to keep the light from the people but the truth is mighty and will prevail. Read this (pulling out a newspaper, the first I had seen, from a pile under the seat and handing it to me), and when you have read it change your garments, wash your flesh in pure water and come into the fellowship of Zion.”
 
I glanced at the paper, which was printed in old English and saw that it was made up like many similar American publications of lamentations, proclamations and execrations and was against everything in general and the Iron Republic in particular.

"Why is it,” I asked, “that you employ newspapers while all other news and general intelligence is diffused by the telephone?”
 
“Because of a conspiracy sir, a damnable conspiracy!” pounding his knee with his fist. “In the beginning we put it on the news service, but it was excluded by the department of public utilities on the ground that it monopolised more than half the service while it was demanded by only a few people. And yet sir, we put on only about one hundred thousand words a day. Think of it sir, the Divine Truth suppressed because there was much of it and only a few people wanted to hear it! The very reasons why it should have been given even if it monopolised the whole service!”
 
“I don’t quite agree with you there.” I interrupted. “As citizens of the Iron Republic as I understand it and contributing to its maintenance, I should say you were entitled to the benefit of the news service in the pro-portion that your numbers compare with the population of the country at large. No more than that, but certainly that much if it is the ideally representative government that it is claimed to be."

"God's curse on the ideally representative government it is claimed to be!” shouted my strange companion violently. “What does it represent sir? Men, not God! The human and not the Divine! God is the creator of all things in heaven and earth and should rule in both, not men. I am happy to say that Zionists do not contribute to the maintenance of such a government except in so far as they are compelled to by the use of the public utilities. They have things in common and hold themselves aloof from the exchanges so that they cannot be taxed for the support of such an iniquitous Babylon.”

“My dear sir.” I remarked quietly. “I am a stranger to you and your creed and do not wish to enter into any discussion, but I cannot conceive how the creator of the world can rule in it except as he does by the laws of nature which seem to me to be inadequate for the government of a civilised state.”
 
“You cannot see how the Creator can rule the world!” he exclaimed. “None are so blind as those who will not see. Read my book on ‘Theory of Divine Government!' How did He rule Israel in the Divine Allegory? Was it by voting and drawing lots and putting Smith, Smate and Smathers in office over His people? because they happened to draw their seals out of a wheel? I say no! He called and anointed his servants to rule over His heritage, to give laws and make His will known to men!”
 
"Ah!” I exclaimed, catching his drift, “you mean that all ruler ship should be in the hands of those only who are called and inspired for that purpose." "That is exactly what I mean,” he answered. "If the people are ruled by men who are divinely called to that high function, they must be ruled ac-cording to the will of the Supreme Ruler which is the only perfect way.”
 
“But how could we know who were called to these high offices?” I ventured to enquire.
 
“How did the people know in the Divine Allegory that Moses and Samuel and Paul and David were called? Because it was revealed to these men and they made it known to the people. How do I know that I have been called to rule this nation in the name of the Lord? Because it has been revealed to me and I must make it known to a stubborn and stiff-necked race, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear. The powers of darkness are leagued against the truth, but the arm of the Lord is not shortened and He will triumph gloriously over His enemies!”
 
“So!” I mentally ejaculated, "cranks are not the result of environment, but of our common human nature for they breed them even in the Iron Republic.

“My friend.” I remarked, not wishing to argue with him as I had had some experience with this genus in America, "I have no controversy with you, being at the present time a student, an humble pupil of any who will teach me; but several times you have referred to a divine allegory. What do you mean by that, the Bible?”
 
“The Divine Allegory, my brother, is the Holy Word that has been given to man in figures and emblems for his guidance in the stern realities of actual life. It is called the Bible, or Word, and gives us knowledge of the will and relations of the Divine to the human.”

“But,” I asked, “why do you call it an allegory? Is it not a record of the real facts of God’s dealings with man?”
 
“Why certainly not.” he replied! that were impossible.”
 
“But why impossible?” I persisted.
 
“Simply because there is no possible basis for such real facts. Where is your Egypt and Palestine and Jerusalem and Babylon in real life? Where is your Dead Sea and Mount Sinai and Rome and Athens?” And he gave me a look of pitying triumph.

“Where?” I retorted somewhat confused by his confident air, bluffed, as we say in America, “why they are where they have always been, of course. Egypt is in Africa, Palestine is in Asia. Rome is in Italy and Athens is in Greece. What's the matter with you anyhow, been eating prunes?"

“So my brother!” (with a commiserating leer,) "do you cover one impossibility with another!

Where then is your Africa, Asia, Italy and Greece?”
 
"Where are they?" I replied still further confused by his domineering insistence, “why they are where they have always been too, of course.”
 
"Well my brother you ask me to teach you and yet you appear to know far more than I do. I have been through every province of the country and have circumnavigated its coast and have failed to find these places or anything answering to them.”
 
“Why man,” I exclaimed in amazement, “they are not in the Iron Republic, but on the other side of the world!’.’
 
"I tell you I have been all through and all around It." said he contemptuously, “and I repeat they do not exist.”
 
“What!” I asked, being now convinced that the man was daft, “do you mean to say, that there is no world beyond the confines of this Iron Republic?”
 
“I mean to say that this is the world and if there is any other it has never been discovered.”
 
“Why my friend,” I exclaimed, “your own histories must record the fact that this country was settled by colonists from England as late as the sixteenth century!”
 
"Lies!” said he snapping his fingers contemptuously. “Scholastic lies to deceive the credulous and make foundation for evil practices. The children of the Truth know better."

“Now see here.” I said warming up and getting interested in spite of the whole thing, “you have literature, hundreds of books, histories, philosophies, poems that were written in other countries: how then can you deny their existence?”
 
“Lies all,” he replied waving his hand scornfully as if to brush them out of the way. “All lies my brother.” 
“You have had ships and men come here from America during your life time; there are men here now that were born in that country!”
 
“All lies!” he reiterated. “Cunningly devised fables to deceive the unwary, but the children of the Truth know better.”
 
“The devil! I’m from America myself!”
 
“Lies, all li--”
 
“Thunderation!” I cried seizing him by the collar and yanking him out of the seat. “Do you mean to call me a lie?”
 
“Help! Help!” he shouted lustily, “the man is crazy!”
 
“You are crazy yourself, you infernal old loon!” I shouted shaking him all over the seats.

“Friends! fellowmen! save me from the clutches of this maniac!” he appealed to the other passengers.
 
“Come and take this damned old lunatic off my hands!” I shouted, still holding on to him. And so as we surged back and forth and other passengers began climbing over seats to get to us, a gong sounded and a moment later the car ran down on the siding at Aegia and the doors flew open.

We must have been fifteen hundred feet above the earth and from that high altitude had a most magnificent view. Mountains could be seen in the blue distance, and rivers winding through sunny fields with here and there a lake that flashed like silver. Many towns and villages were visible from where we floated high up in midair, trains of cars, far below us looked like great, black, jointed worms crawling swiftly along the earth and the crispness of the rarified atmosphere would have chilled us but for the exercise of driving the great double aero plane.

It was exhilarating to the highest degree as we swung around in great ascending circles or hurtled quivering down through the air in long toboggan slides, to leap up again as though sprung from a catapult, when the steering fan was dipped. Helen Morris never looked more beautiful than as we swung side by side under the aero plane and surveyed the panorama of the earth below. During the year of our acquaintance, I had made no more progress in loving or love making than on the first day we met. Always kind, sympathetic, sometimes almost tender, she nevertheless held me at a worshipful distance, never repulsing, but always repressing me in a way that convinced me that my suit was not disagreeable, —but hopeless. No slighting reference had been made to Professor Hallam since the clay when in her impetuous argument with her father she sneered at the fiddlers of Ironia, and indeed, her conduct afterwards indicated repentance for her hasty and unjust words, for in her subsequent manner towards him in my presence she seemed desirous to make atonement by being especially kind. She was interested in me, that I was sure of, and when I achieved some notoriety by winning the somewhat famous “gangplow" case against the state, and began to be talked about as the brilliant attorney from America, her elation was so sincere and apparent as to give me the hope that I had won two suits at the same time; but when I would have improved the occasion to press my claim for her heart and hand, she protested declaring with tears that I gave her great pain and begged me to desist. Notwithstanding, she seemed to be happier with me than with Professor Hallam and I reached the conclusion after close observation that her hand had been promised to him and she was too proud or too true to draw back when she found that her heart could not be given with it. I had yielded to my fate and while improving every opportunity to bask in her presence. I no more spoke of my love. But this glorious afternoon I found it hard to repress the promptings of my heart. She looked so happy and all nature seemed so glad, that I could not bring myself to feel that I was a finally rejected lover.

The novelty and delight of my position made me again to doubt the reality of it all and looking into her eyes that beamed as tender as the blue sky above us. I said, “this must be heaven materialised and modernised.” “If so, then a good many features were eliminated in the process,” replied my fair companion.

"I care not what is lacking so long as that feature which makes it heaven be here." I said, looking straight into her deep brown eyes.

"And pray what is that?" she asked.

“The angelic!"
 
“But for the testimony of the Good Book which records that he was cast out. I would be tempted to retort that Lucifer is also in evidence," She replied blushing and laughing.

"His was a sad fate," said I "but not so sad as mine, for he was shut out forever from the sight of the bliss which he had lost, while I. alas, must endure the double grief of losing what is more than heaven to me and then seeing another enjoy what I have lost!” She blushed deeply and dropped her eyes before my ardent gaze, and then turning her head looked away towards the blue hills that broke the northern horizon.

“After all,” she said, and speaking, as much to herself as to me. "after all, the Christian philosophy teaches that the real heaven and true, the peace which is above all earthly passion, is as much the fruit of sacrifice as of love. And turning her eyes full upon me, “perverse and impulsive as I am sometimes, I yet believe that I am capable of suffering rather than that I should be the wilful cause of suffering in another.” I began vehemently to protest against any philosophy that would make two people miserable for the chance of making one happy, when my ear caught the sound of a wavering melody above us, which seemed to come down from heaven itself.

“Hark! What is that sweet sound?" My companion listened a moment and then her face clouded. “Don't you know? That is Professor Hallam and his eolian harp following us. Let’s dip!” and jerking the steering fan with all her force, we flew down an aerial incline five hundred feet or more with such velocity as almost to take my breath. In making these dips or downward glides, only a slight inclination is necessary to send the aero plane whizzing through the air with the speed of an arrow, but my companion, either with reckless abandon or by accident, threw, our machine down almost to an angle of forty-five degrees and when, at the bottom of the incline, the head was thrown up to make it leap into the air again, the great aero plane bellied upward with a strain that made the frame bend and quiver and then with a report like the crack of a pistol it burst almost from end to end and seeming to shudder for a moment, began to drop towards the earth.

In this moment of deadly peril. I believe that all that was best and nob-lest in me asserted itself and like a flash it occurred to me that the rent canvas while not sufficient to bear up two would probably drop gently enough with one to avoid fatal consequences. With the thought came the resolve and in less than a second after the aero plane began to fall I had thrown loose the strap that bound me to my seat and rising upon the pedal leaned over until my lips almost touched the blanched face of the woman I loved, and shouted.(for the whipping of the rent canvas made a noise like that of a hurricane.) “it is death for one and I love you and can die for you!" “Then let it be death for both." she cried letting go of the bar and throwing both arms around my neck with a vice-like grip, "for I love you and cannot live without you!”
 
"One kiss, oh my darling!" pressing my lips to hers with a thrill that made me to forget the peril of death, and then throwing myself forward, dropped from the pedal. But the fair arms about my neck were strong and though I struggled to break loose, knowing that the velocity at which we were falling meant certain death for both of us, they held me fast. Down, down we fell with a quivering fluttering motion like a winged bird dropping to earth, and choked to blindness and suffocation I was expecting to feel the impact that would crush us against the ground, when I became dimly conscious of a fierce shrieking sound above us and then our downward motion seemed to be arrested. A moment later, we struck the earth with a shock that seemed to break every bone in my body. With a great wave of thankfulness, I realised that we were saved and disengaging the fair arms, that still wound around my neck like bands of steel. I struggled to my feet and hastily unbuckling the strap that bound the beautiful form of my heart’s idol to the wrecked machine, dragged her fainting from under the aero plane.
 
My first concern was to ascertain if she were killed or injured and laying her gently on the grass, I found to my unspeakable joy that she was alive and bore no marks of injury. Loosing the close fitting bodice at the throat that she might breathe more freely, and fanning her vigorously with my handkerchief. I was rewarded in a few moments by seeing her open her eyes and look up at me with an expression of inexpressible tenderness.

“O my love!" she said holding up her hands to me. "then you would in - deed have died for me!”
 
"A thousand times." I cried rapturously, seizing her hands and covering them with kisses. “Now you shall be mine forever and ever!" “No, no. it cannot be!" she exclaimed hastily, withdrawing her hands and springing to her feet. "What does this mean?" running back to the aero plane with an expression of terror. I followed her and saw with astonishment that another aero plane was foul with ours and lay upon it. "What indeed!" I cried, seizing the end of it and lifting it up.

"Oh, don't you, —can't you see that it is Professor Hallam's? Don't you see his harp? Oh my God!" and with a shuddering cry of horror she covered her face with her hands and fell upon her knees moaning and crying.

Then it dawned upon me that the noble man had swooped down and attaching his machine to ours had thrown himself to death to save our lives! Leaving the weeping woman I ran to a group of people who had gathered some little distance away and were talking and gesticulating wildly and there, crushed and dead lay the noblest man and greatest genius that ever lived. In his Godlike nobility of soul, he had caught our aero plane several hundred feet above the earth and seeing that it could not sustain all and prevent us from being crushed against the earth, he had thrown himself down to a horrible death that his affianced might escape with his rival! I wonder not that at last, when earthly passion had been chilled by the cold touch of death and the dross of mortality scarce intervened, that it was of him she thought, that it was the wondrous melody of his nocturne that she heard above the roaring of the frozen sea, rolling down from the beyond ere she passed. And I felt no pang of jealousy! If, in the house of many mansions, (where there is no marrying and giving in marriage, but all are as the angels of God in love and purity,) — I may be accounted worthy of the humblest station in their sphere, I shall be content. And yet she loved me and not him! 

Kneeling by him I raised the noble head and chafed the poor broken hands that held within them the potency of such divine harmony as the world will never hear again, but the great soul had passed! Death was doubtless instantaneous, for though his face was unmarred his body was horribly crushed and broken. Dis-patching one of the bystanders to convey intelligence of the accident to the city. I went back and raised the weeping girl who was to have been the dead man's wife. “My darling." I said lifting her gently, "you would have been true to him and he was a God-like man and worthy of your troth: but surely the hand of providence is in this terrible thing. Will you go and look upon him?' Taking my arm without speaking I led her to where our saviour lay upon the ground and with a solemn grace and dignity that was really majestic, she walked around to the dead man's feet and looked long and calmly at his face. “Thou wert too pure and great to be loved as a man,” she spoke at last, “and in the presence of thy dead clay I feel as unworthy as Guinevere at the feet of the pure and royal Arthur. Alas! the world has lost its greatest spirit and I a friend of whom I could never be worthy!” Then as I led her away, “Oh my Lancelot, thou art not and never can be so good or great a man, and yet I love you!"

For months, my beautiful wife had been fading like a flower. Even on shipboard and amid the excitement of the wildest storm, she seemed listless and totally indifferent to her surroundings.

The boding sadness that began to come upon her after the terrible accident that resulted in the death of Professor Hallam, never left her, and while she sometimes simulated vivacity. her gaiety pained rather than pleased me, for my love penetrated her sweet little deception and I knew that it was for my sake that she pretended what she did not feel.

I had fondly hoped, and so had her parents, that when she was out of the country and away from the scenes that reminded her of her past her old buoyancy of spirits would return. Indeed but for this and the dreadful melancholia, that grew upon her day after day, we would never have yielded to her desire to undertake the desperate journey to America. But it was not so, and the bitterness of my disappointment amounted to anguish. Every morning on board of the vessel, as on shore, she would awake at the exact moment when the wonderful matins of Professor Hallam had been wont to roll out from the tower of music, and listen wide-eyed and with every faculty strained to the utmost tension of alertness, listening. And as I lay beside her sometimes and held her hand, feigning sleep. I could feel the nervous tremor that agitated her, while her pulse fluttered with the intensity of the nervous strain.

My God! It was terrible that my sweet wife, the most beautiful and gracious woman I ever knew and the only one I ever loved should suffer like that! And at sunset she would listen for the nocturne with the same fever of excitement. Thus as long as we were in latitudes where day and night alternated and when we reached the regions of the pole where there were no sun risings nor settings, instead of becoming better she grew worse, and this intense, preoccupied, listening attitude became habitual. I employed every artifice I could devise to interest her and fix her attention on objects about us and she with the sweetest grace tried to be interested, but even as I held her hand and talked to her with all the animation, I could affect, looking into the fathomless depths of her glorious eyes I would lose her. With the most intense concentration of mind she would follow me and “sense" what I was saying for a few minutes, and then she listened indeed, but not to me! And oh, she tried so hard!

One evening we stood by the rail on the quarterdeck looking out over the hissing brine at the sun, which hung red upon the horizon. It seemed as if it were just ready to sink out of sight though really it had been but slightly above the horizon for many days. As I stood with one arm around her and holding her hand, her gaze was fixed on the red ball of fire that touched the ocean's rim and which was reflected in her eyes like the flashes in an opal. I drew her to me and spoke ardently of what I hoped to accomplish when we reached my own country, even putting my face against hers as I spoke. But I do not think she heard me! Like one hypnotised she seemed totally oblivious of her surroundings, and I saw with a pang of anguish that she was listening for the strains of that glorious nocturne, such as was never heard except from the “tower of music," and such as was never played by any hand save that of the dead master. And then I believed my heart broke! Then a pain struck through my breast that has never ceased from that hour to this, waking or sleeping.

Dropping her hand I fell forward with a groan and catching the rail rested my head upon it. Starting as if she had been struck, my darling came back to herself, and with a cry fell down at my feet and with a torrent of broken words and sobs begged me to forgive her. “Oh my love!” she cried, as the tears ran down her beautiful upturned face, my heart is breaking for you, but I cannot help it, indeed I cannot. Oh! when I cannot see you or hear you my heart aches for you with never ceasing misery. I have struggled and I have prayed, but God will not help me! And I have feared that you — that you might not understand — that you might think — Oh what shall I say? That you might not think that I love you and you only with all my heart! Oh my husband pity me and forgive your poor miserable, unfortunate wife! Oh I — Oh, oh — " and she fell forward with her face against my knees, sobbing and quivering with the violence of her emotion.

Lifting her gently in my arms while my heart was bursting, I carried her down into the cabin and laid her on her bed and with her arms still about my neck as when they held me back from a fearful death that summer afternoon. I fell on my knees by the bedside and with my face against hers, wept with her. And in the dim twilight of the cabin, while the sun hung red upon the rim of the sea, and the billows rustled along the vessel's side with a sad murmur like the sighing of an autumn wind, she told me that Professor Hallam's music had always impressed her in a way she could not understand. That whenever she heard his wonderful matins and nocturnes she seemed to lose herself, and was borne away on the billows of harmonious sound. She told me that she could even divine the music in advance of the playing and knew each bar before she heard it as well as if she had composed it herself. Stranger than all, she said she always knew by some mysterious influence the very moment the music was going to begin, and she knew by that influence, that mysterious something, that the master was playing now, was playing all the time, and while she could not hear the music, by this strange power which dominated her, she felt it and knew what unutterable strains were being rendered in heaven or somewhere. She told me as she lay there with her soft arms about my neck and her dear face touching mine, that if she had the skill to set it down fast enough she could write the grand music that was being rendered day and night and day after day without cessation! At first, she said she only felt it evenings and mornings, and then more and more, until finally when we passed into the zone where there was no alternation of day and night, she felt that he was playing all the time! She could not hear it but she felt it, felt its beauty and could not escape its power! She had kept this from me till now, seeing my suffering, she could no longer conceal it, but told me all, that I might not doubt her love, but pity and forgive her the pain she caused me!

If she had done this at first, the great physicians of Ironia might have cured her of the malady —for such it must have been —and I entreated her to let me take her back then but she would not consent. “Why it has stopped now!" she cried, holding my face between her hands and looking up at me with the love light in her eyes. “It stopped short off when you fell against the rail, and I know he would never play again even to the angels if he knew it caused me sorrow!’ And as I gazed into her face and saw the old look in her eyes I thanked God and prayed that the spell might be broken, and that she might never again fall under the power of the dead man's music.

I knew not that the end was so near and when it came, it was as if God had struck me with a thunderbolt out of a clear sky. For a week, she had not come on deck and had scarcely been on her feet during the time. The hallucination that possessed her had not recurred since the day she told me all and I was sure that in some inexplicable wav her violent emotion at that time had been the means of breaking the spell. But the improvement I had looked for from that did not come and she grew weaker, physically, day by day — or rather from hour to hour, as there was no alternation of day and night.

We had sighted “Barrington strait” and was laying off and on, keeping the towering ice wall in sight and waiting for a wind that would drive us through the current that runs like a millrace through the channel. For hours my beautiful wife, now so frail and white as to seem almost ethereal, had reclined on the lounge in the cabin with her eyes half closed and such an expression of heavenly peace upon her face that I felt awed as though in the presence of an angel. I was sitting at table trying to fix my mind upon a chart that I was making of the ice coast and the entrance to the strait, when with a slight cry she clasped her hands and opened wide her eyes with that look of listening expectancy I knew so well.

Springing to her side with a half uttered imprecation; I kneeled beside her and caught her clasped hands in mine. “Listen," she whispered excitedly, “he is going to play! I feel it— ah, now he is playing! It is the glorious nocturne he played that evening when we were by the river. Hark! I can hear it — oh, so grand! Her eyes closed and she moved her head forward and front side to side for some moments keeping time.

"Edward, my husband, where are you?"

“I am here, darling." I cried passionately, pressing her hands and imprinting a kiss on her partly opened lips. “Then I am content," and withdrawing one of her hands from mine, she put an arm around my neck. I started to speak caressingly to her when she stopped me with a quick “hush, I am to sing.’’ He is playing the prelude! Now he is motioning me to begin, now!" and inhaling a deep breath she began to sing the great "Peace hymn" of the republic.

"Of old when down the star girt sky,

The angel voices swelled and ran. This was the burden of their cry.

Peace, peace on earth, good will to man."

In the refrain.

“Peace, peace, peace, on all the earth peace.
 
Peace, peace, peace, among all men peace."

Her voice swelled grandly and floated out over the black ocean. She drew my face down upon her bosom and as the triumphant notes of this magnificent hymn — the masterpiece of Professor Hallam — rose and fell, my heart seemed to melt within me, my tears gushed forth and I felt as if my spirit was out borne on the wings of song, far above the sphere of earthly hope and passion; beyond the sound of discord, beyond the veil of darkness, into a great luminous ethereal space that throbbed with the rhythmic measures of the music of the spheres. And as I floated upward on the waves of unutterable melody where there was no horizon and no sky, an angel held me by the hand and about the neck and that angel, I felt, had been my wife!

I was aroused by a touch on the shoulder, and looking up I saw the kind face of Captain Brent bending over me. "Where am I?" I asked in a dazed way. “You are in the hands of Almighty God," replied the Captain solemnly, "who doeth all things well.”
 
I staggered to my feet and gazed about me and then looking down saw the earthly image of my wife still and white as a reclining statue of marble; her eyes were closed as though in slumber, and her lips were parted with a smile, and I realised that God had struck me the final blow. With a calmness, I could not understand. I motioned him out of the cabin and bowed myself in the presence of my dead. 

When I went on deck again the sun had disappeared below the horizon and fingers of golden fire pointed from the rim of the black ocean to the zenith that was flushed with rosy light.

But why should I linger with these sorrowful details? I was not stirred by any emotion and felt nothing except that dull pain in my heart, which has never left me. Captain Brent was like a father and the boys pressed my hand with a silent sympathy that expressed far more than words.

I say I was not moved by any great emotion, except once, when, after Captain Brent had read the solemn service for those who are buried in the sea and motioned to the mate to take me into his cabin while they committed my idol to the deep: then for a time I was crazed. I had nearly gone mad and I believe I would have killed every man aboard the ship before I would have suffered them to cast that loved form into the cold hissing waters of that black sea. 

The weather was favourable and as the billows rolled over and far up on the shelving ledge of the great berg, we had only to ride in on the crest of a wave and drawing the boat up make it fast on the ice.

It was a little mountain of ice and snow and tapering up from the water line it terminated in two glittering pinnacles like crystal spires of a cathedral of glass. Between the two a niche or grotto partly filled with snow and up to this, we climbed by throwing ropes over the jutting crags and lesser pinnacles that projected from the sloping sides above the wash of the sea waves. And so we toiled up from terrace to terrace and from pinnacle to pinnacle until we reached the grot between the spires and there we placed the couch with the earthly form of my beautiful wife and banked the snow about it. Below the black sea sobbed and moaned about the base of the great iceberg, and above the wind sang among the crevices and pinnacles of the resonant ice like an hundred Aeolian harps, swelling in fitful gusts until the triumphant chords rang out like strains from the "tower of music." and there we left her a marble queen upon a crystal throne, alone with God and the angels.

I begged for the love of heaven to be left there with her, but cruel in their kindness they dragged me away to the ship.

And then there burst upon us a scene of unearthly splendour. The aurora australis sprang up around us, and under it, the black sea turned to gold, frosted here and there with the foaming crests of billows. Every rope and spar of the ship stood out white in the spectral light and the great icebergs in their whiteness and stillness and silence, looked like ghosts preternaturally enlarged. The twin spires of the crystal mausoleum gleamed like sapphires and in the grot between, magnified by the wondrous light and irradiated by its ineffable glory was revealed the form of my lost wife. And while the amber and golden light played around the towering berg, radiating from it like a halo, fluttering like banners and angels wings above it, we drew away until it became a mere flashing gem upon the sea of gold.

- The End