After a citizen has served successfully as a supervisor and magistrate, he becomes a franklin of the second grade and is eligible to the next higher office under the state, which comes eligible the next office the provincial assembly. This body corresponds to your state legisla ture. One week after the primary election, the commonwealth election does not go higher until he reaches the age limit, which sixty years
president
having longer the right vote
has no grade all,
participate any election. No citizen eligible the same office
more than once and after serving any the capacities mentioned, be
 is held, which is participated in by ex-magistrates the common
for the first grade and seventy for the others.
wealth, and one chosen common
As with the exercise of the fran chise America, some our citi zens never contest for any office,
wealth representative the provin
cial assembly. The choice for all having no desire for public life and
civil officers lot. week later being entirely optional with them. the provincial elections are held When man out office, he
and from the body ex-common only private citizen having no ad wealth deputies one chosen vantage over any other franklin represent the province the nation the republic, except merely his eligi
senate. All the newly elected bility, common with all others
bodies meet the first day Jan his grade, uary and organize and the new sen the one ate from the whole number of ex dents are
the office next above has held. Retiring presi exception, by virtue senators the republic, choose having held every office under the
new president. The primary elec state, they are considered pre-emi tions occur annually, the common nently qualified and become life mem
wealth elections bi-ennially and the bers the supreme cabinet, which provincial and presidential elections body composed ex-presidents
quadrennially, the terms office and three citizens the first grade, being respectively, one, two and chosen for distinguished ability and
four years. citizen
virtue appointed by the incoming presi
the first grade; dent with the approval the senate. magistrate, This supreme cabinet serves an
seal,
after
citizen has served
the second grade. After serving advisory council the president deputy the provincial assembly and as national board of arbitra franklin the third grade tion, to which referred all vexed
and when he has been elected na questions
tional senator he advances to the the highest authority the re
internal administration. fourth grade. After has served public and by its sanction, the presi
  he
as of
is,
A
heas is
his
al
all
is a
in
in
he a
in
A of
onof
in is of
is by
is in in
by
of
of
as heof a to
It of it
or
is a of a isofinain
is no he
in
toofof ofis of as of
of anheto
is is
to toin
as
if toat in
of in is
 44 FL () H II). A MAGAZINE.
dent has the right to veto. Can you framed and submitted the people
conceive of any scheme of govern
the appellate elections. the appeal the people for an expres
sion their will on the subject. The
ment simpler than this?” asked my friend. “Our financial, judicial and
penal systems are just as simple and
satisfactory, but we have not time compel legislative bodies propose
to go into them now." laws. This prerogative though, “The scheme certainly possesses that never exercised, for legisla
probable.—aye, extremely probable, tion demanded by their constituents. that controlling majority these You want to bear in mind that there legislative bodies may wholly in are no political parties here, such capable framing suitable laws for you have America, consequently
the merit of simplicity,” I replied, tors knowing the alternative, are “and yet under not possible, always willing propse any legisla
great state? My observation has
there not the vindictive strife and party feeling that you have there. There are no questions personal ambition party expediency be considered and no motive to swerve
been that men are egotistical and
obstinate the proportion that they are incompetent, and majority
such men, seems to me, would not
any legislator from the most abso
only fail would prevent
legislate wisely, but
capable minority
“My dear sir,” exclaimed the
lutely unselfish efforts for the public weal.”
from doing so."
“There must certainly differ professor, "you have not yet grasp ences opinion on measures
the first principles legislation public policy,” suggested.
people may take the initiative and
this great country. not the “There are differences opinion,
exclusive function any these course, on nearly all measures legislative bodies originate legis that are proposed and they are dis
lation. They may indeed, devise and cussed by the press and the people propose laws, but they have no pow and then settled by vote the sov enact any whatever for the ereign citizens. But there no government the people. Here necessary connection between the where the elective franchise comes success of these measures and that in, every law, whether proposed of any individual the nation, the
by the national senate for the repub discussions are always moderate and lic, the provincial assembly for the intelligent. Unmarried women le
province the commonwealth gal age and widows with the neces
council for the local government
sary qualifications, are franklins of
the primaries, must referred the people and its acceptance
the first grade and share with men re the appellate franchise.”
jection determined their vote. “Pray what compensation do Wise measures public policy are these different legislative officers originated for the most part, by receive?” asked:
scholars and publicists and when “Primary supervisors and magis they are elaborated and perfected by trates receive one and two dollars public discussion, they are "operly day, respectively, the year round
I
of is
or of
to it
by or
be
a
ofis in
it
to of
is of of
as
a of
in
er to
in ed
a
of
to of
it, is
as
of of be
to
of
a ofas
to It is
ofis to
It of
be
I
to
a
in a
is orin is
of to
in
 FLOR II).1 MAGAZINE. 45
because they are constantly employ only when they reach their outmost ed.” answered the professor. “Pro bounds and dash themselves on the vincial deputies receive three dollars rock bound coast to be thrown back a day for the time they are in ses broken, foaming masses, that the sion, national senators receive four angry roar the breakers heard,
dollars and presidents get five dol lars for their full time as do members
of the supreme cabinet, for they are
constantly employed. There is no
mileage, as the railroads are owned
by the state and it costs them noth and long the majority them ing to travel.” have homes and property, you are
“Five dollars a day for the presi safe, for the illusion par dent of a great nation " The state tially civilized people that the object ment fairly took my breath. and end government protect
“That is very munificent pay,” property. But under your system,
sending terror the heart the
mariner. As long you have un occupied territory for your increas ing tides population flow out upon, your people will have homes
 said my friend, “but as they give up the time will come when compara all other business as well as their tively few people will own most
homes, and have to reside at the the property and control the means
capitol, it is not considered too
subsistence: then, they will logic ally combine for mutual protection and aggression and learning the ter rible power combination, will in
evitably throttle the spirit liberty
and crush the life blood out your people. On the other hand few men whom the love for wealth and power has extinguished the love
liberty and their fellowmen, owning all the wealth and by the power
much, though their labor is intrin
sically worth no more than that of
the man who lays brick or shovels dirt.”
“This is indeed a remarkable gov ernment!" I exclaimed.
“My fellow countryman.” said the
professor rising, “I have the kindest
memories of your country, for it is
the land of my birth. But you have
a very imperfect system of govern that wealth controlling production,
ment. It is by no means representa tive and admits of more corruption than could exist under an intelligent despotism. It has been so with previous attempts popular gov ernment. elastic system and
transportation, legislation, every
moved from the noblest and most heroic ancestors reduced to the con
ditions serfs! Aye, even worse condition, for the medieval
serf might work and fight for his master, but with your hundred hand ed machinery produce and the
blind greed which will deprive the period congestion. The great bil masses the power consume,
their services will be dispensed with. Their labor will not required and there nothing their masters will
heretofore with boundless territory and immense unused resources, has been adequate. Congestion
the state the human body,
fatal and you will ultimately reach
lows mid-ocean roll grandly
without danger and without noise, save deep soothing murmur.
thing! On the other hand, millions people only few generations re
  a
in of
as
It is
on
a is in it
all
is
of
in
as is as
to be
to as
to
to a
is of to
to
is
in
an
It is
of
of it
of
at
of of in
a
of
of
of of
a
all
of
of of
of of
 46
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE.
want them to fight for as they will along, “but one thing you did not possess everything. There is the explain I would like to know, and
picture for you, sir; heartless greed, that is how the lots are cast which
wealth forti elects one man to office out of the fied by legislation and protected by great number of candidates.”
oppression, ill-gotten
hired minnions on one side, and on "Now," said my friend,” by a for
the other, millions who cry for the tunate circumstance, you can have an opportunity to earn bread! And if opportunity of seeing just how it is
you want it shaded, there is dyna
mite and gunpowder and gorgeous
combustible villas, all great smoke makers!”
My companion had been pacing
the floor excitedly as he poured out these burning words, but now stop
done, as a magistrate has recently resigned in one of the common
ping before me his mood suddenly
in the news current this morning which stated that an election would
wealths of this province to accept a position in the sub-treasury at Ae
gia in the province of Vandalia and
if you remember, there was an item
 changed and he smiled broadly. be held tomorrow to fill the vacancy “Why bless me. I am talking to you occasioned by the supervisor taking as though your destiny was bound his place. It is only about an hour's
up in the United States and you run on the Ironia and Olympian rail
were going back there next week, when as a matter of fact we are, both
way and you can go down and see it for yourself which will be better than any description you could have of it.”
of us, absolutely cut off and that country is no more to us than the lost Atlantis or the cities of the plain! Come, I don't know how you feel, but this great outflow of words seems to have left a void that re minds me that it is about the hour
It was accordingly arranged that
for lunch.” Stepping to the ubiquit ous transmitter he gave some orders about a carriage and I heard him say something about a two seater at the hour of fourteen. Passing out of the building we walked through the handsome grounds of Capitol
ing and take it in.
When we arrived at the house of
my friend I found a gentleman waiting for me with a tape line and a book of cloth samples who was in troduced as a very capable furnisher. I learned that my host had asked him to call and take my measure for an outfit. I went up to my room with the outfitter and was surprised at the excellent quality of his samples, there being no shoddy or inferior goods in the lot. I intimated to him that as
I had a very complete wardrobe and as the period of my sojourn in that
square and had barely reached the Boulevard that surrounded it when
a light carriage came whizzing down
upon us, in which we took our seats and were propelled swiftly to my friend's house in the suburbs.
country was uncertain, I did not de “I have been greatly interested sire anything expensive, preferring in what you have told me about something rather, of good appear your government,” I said as we rode ance without regard to durability.
I should run down the next morn

 The smiling tailor told me though, that he had no goods that would not wear for years, all being equally well
weaver in exchange, the price estab lished by the bureau of Subsistence, which is based on the weight and weave of the goods. It is then sold to whoever wants it at a slight advance
Fi,OR II)A MAGAZINE. 47
made and the only difference being
in the weight of the material. In
specting a piece of black casimer, I which is the seigniorage, or prin
asked him if he could guarantee the
dye to retain the lustre, and to my astonishment was informed that he
cipal source of revenue for the sup port of the state."
did not handle any dyed cloths at all,
everything he had being in the nat the different grades are purely ar ural color of the wool, which includ bitrary with this bureau.”
ed every shade of handsome suitings “No, the price of nothing is ar of the finest and firmest texture. Re bitrary,” returned the tailor. “The
marking the excellence of the qual value of everything being fixed by
“Then there is no competition,” I remarked, “I suppose the prices for
 ity, I volunteered the compliment
the average cost of production, as
that his factories evidently turned
ascertained by the bureau in the most careful and scientific manner.”
out better goods than ours, where
“There must be,” said I, “some
upon he informed me that every
unsaleable goods made, as there is in my country; does the exchange have to take them at the production price,
regardless of what they will sell for.” “The exchange sometimes has goods that will not sell for the es tablished price by reason of their un desirability, damage in storage, or other causes. When that is the case
they are cut to the selling point. It frequently happens too, especially with agricultural productions, that
the price of one article is reduced,
piece was woven by hand and that
there was not a cloth factory in the
republic! In the meantime I had
made my selection and he was en gaged in taking my measure.
“Do you mean to tell me,” I asked with astonishment, “that a na
tion so far advanced as yours does not use machinery in the manufac ture of cloth 3’ “None at all,” was the reply. “They used to, long be
fore my time, but under the repub lic no factories are allowed.”
“And do you weave this cloth, or while that of other things which
do you have to go around and find it compete with it or displace rais among the private individuals who ed. The bureau has all of that in
weave it?" I asked.
“Oh, I simply go to the Govern
hand and the business reduced to
science. The exchange also has the right reject anything and pro
ducers keep touch with and thus know what the public demand
Here was another field opened my curiosity which would
ment Exchange, which takes it from the weavers, and get what I want."
“Does the government speculate
for.”
in this cloth or simply store it and sell it for the weavers?”
“The government does not spec up
ulate on anything.” replied the out have liked very much explore fitter. “It takes this cloth, giving the further questioning, but my outfitter
  to
is
by
a to
is
to
I
it so
it, is
in
 48 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE.
did his work expeditiously and lunch article that can be applied on suffi was waiting. At the table I introduc cient quantity meet the demand, ed the subject and asked why the without the use machinery. This manufacture of cloth by machinery
was prohibited in the Iron Republic. “We prohibit the use of machinery in the making of cloth,” answered
my host, “for the same reason that we do in the manufacture of every thing else that the people can supply
without the aid of machinery: that that there may work for all."
“Not that we have none all, no enforced idleness
any lic.”
To be Continued.)
Backwoods Social. SARONDEE.
“Do understand that you have plished, for requires the work no manufacturies at all?" asked. all supply the wants all, there
list includes fabrics almost every description, shoes, hats, head wear,
furniture, rope, agricultural imple ments and products, vehicles, fact
almost everything that we use.” "And the purpose this
that there may work for all do?”
“That the purpose.” replied my host, "and the purpose accom
 but none for the manufacture
this repub
OW strange seem the customs country, even
state other than our own During my first visit Florida,
the year 1898, was invited social the home planter, liv ing forty miles from the primitive
was two o'clock
the after
village where chance had led me.
had only very slight acquain supper. The road's powerful rough
tance with the wife this planter, having spoken few words her on an occasion when she had accom
panied her husband whilst had sold “truck” my hostess. As learned afterwards, had been
through her sympathy for “that lonesome lookin' Yankee woman"
that happened included her list of invitations.
some places, and hit ain't any too
noon when Mr. Stevens drove up and gave me the invitation; adding
that was agreeable would drive me out the “cyart;" and, "as the fun's begin about moon rise, we'd better a-moseying along, so’s git thar time for
short, nuther.’’
Surmising that, me,
there would something unique, and, consequently, interesting this out
ing, and appreciating the truly southern spirit hospitality which
had prompted this informal invita tion stranger, accepted glad 1V.
  I
I
is, I
to
to
a
a
I
beitofof A a to or
be I
in heto toof
ofat
to a
if it
It
I of
in
to
be
of is
it
he
in
I
a in | a
be
in
is of to
to
to in
as it
is be
ofto
in
in
in
of is to
of
at
of
of a
 [A// Rights
44D UT," said I, with a disposi tion to argue every point, one man with a machin? can do the work of a hundred and it
Reserved.]
able political conditions, you might well employ the use of machinery, thereby giving the people more
advantage thought saw. “With improved machinery and division labor, have been informed that
time for recreation and the improve ment of the mind.” “Certainly there
man can make pair shoes every
excuse for not using labor saving machinery
You employ
twelve minutes, cost
cents. That will fifty pairs
day ten hours. Your man with the machine then, has done the work
must be the advantage all. “Ah, my friend" exclaimed the
should say average
“Ah! Then this man does the
work fifty men and turns out product that worth $100 more than the cost production. Who gets this $100,” asked my host lay
ing down his fork and looking across the table me with an air affect
simplicity.
“The man company that owns
professor, very much fear that $1.50.”
your argument influenced by your legal training, for palpably one sided, being predicated the as
sumption that machine doing the work of hundred men, lessens the
price products without dimin ishing the purchasing power the
hundred men who have been depriv work by Now let come
FLOR II)A MA (;AZINE
The Iron Republic. RICHARD JAMESON MORGAN.
100
labor and cost?” “Very much in seems to me that with your admir deed,” answered warming the
the Unit does the
ed States, and where
work of hundred or thousand fifty men. What pay does re
could not say that they did. formation average about two “As matter fact,” continued dollars per pay,” replied.” Your my host, “does anybody derive any man paid two dollars day and benefit except the owners the ma turns out product that sells for $25 “Oh no!” interrupted, see,” said my host smiling; “this the cost making. Now what do these
chine?' was obliged confess
that they were the only direct bene ficiaries, but that the cost produc tion was lessened, which course,
“that costs $25 make.” shoes sell for?"
down practical illustration. You use machinery the manufacture
shoes;
what extent does lessen
 seven minutes,
cents.” “Very well;
positive though
your data, we will allow some lati tude and say they make pair
men do they get the benefit it?” ceive?” “From the best my in
is great temptation to use a machine that will do the work of a hundred men," replied my host "and if the hundred men were the beneficiaries of its efficiency, there could be no
you are not the accuracy
cost thirty
fifty
  ed
I a
of
of a
“I to
of ofof
I
a of
of ed
of
at
in an II a
to
its
it.
it
on us
to of
a
is
is
it. a it in
a of“Iofisof I
orofis toIbeatasata in a toa
anIof ifofI
a of a a of is“I he of of
up it to
in
a of of a in of
of
of
to
 110 FLORIDA. MA GAZINE
the machine, I suppose,” I answered conducive an equitable distribu slightly nettled. tion wealth among the people?
“Then the forty-nine men whose Does not rather impoverish the work has been done for them do not forty-nine men whose work done
come in except in the matter of in by the machine and enrich one man creased time for recreation | But who gets the value fifty men's
what surprises me most,” my host work for the price one?”
went on, “is that these shoes can be could not deny logical con
made for fifty cents and sold for clusion.
the Iron Republic,” con
$1.50. How is this feat, so contrary to the laws of competition accom plished?”
“Now
tinued the professor, “where machin ery not allowed supplant labor,
“In the first place,” I answered, “our manufacturers combine to
produce fifty pairs shoes one
maintain prices among themselves work fifty men and the value and in the second place we have a their product would be divided tariff which brings the imported ar among them. So the question re ticle up to that price.” solves itself into this proposition:
day would probably require
the
 “So!” exclaimed my host, “I which better, let fifty men earn begin to comprehend your system one dollar apiece, let two men
which I presume was the same when earn SIOO, (one whom works
I left the country, but as I was quite while the other keeps books),
a young man and had never paid which amount the working man gets much attention to such matters, I re $2 while the bookkeeper gets the
tain no knowledge on the subject. balance?”
Now let us look into this system in The proposition did not admit practical application. Here debate, but could not refrain from
machine that one day with the ap remarking that seemed pity that plication one man's labor, does fifty men should labor day ac the work fifty men, thereby de complish what an inanimate machine priving forty-nine men the oppor might do without toil fatigue. tunity work. the value the “Not necessarily,” retorted my product turns out, earns the host. “In appearance and according
wages fifty men and yet all that labor gets out the paltry sum
$2 not enough pay for the result fifteen minutes its time,
the balance going the owner the machine. So while flesh and blood
eat bread the sweat his brow, and like every other human practice that runs contrary the Divine or der, harmful its results and think your system must demonstrate
and brains and skill earns $2 for la Biblical injunction that man shall
bor, wood and iron and steel earns
$50 for capital! And this wonderful machine too, all probability, the
product skill and labor the same miserable wage! this system
the ethics industrial economy, there could be no objection the machine doing the work fifty men
the fifty men got the benefit
work. And yet contrary the Divine economy, expressed the
  of or of
of it to
of of
Is toit of
of
at is
of
is a
to
as is of or to
of
its
in of in
it In to is
of
if to
to I is of is
is
in it of it to
itof
by I
in
to
so of of ora to of of
in to of to to I its
in
a
of a
is
of of of
 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 111
Notwithstanding the use ma leges, libraries and other beneficient chinery, you doubtless have large institutions stand as monuments to
number men who are steadily and this virtue them today.” “Un permanently employed; now which doubtedly," assented the professor,
makes the best showing, mentally “and yet must remind you the and morally, this steadily employed first place that man who becomes class, the unemployed partially millionaire from the increment of
employed class whose time for rec Other men's labor, can be no idler,
reation and the improvement the for the mere keeping up with his
mind has been increased the use machinery?” was compelled
confess that the employed class took precedence both point intelli
gence and morals. remarked too, that was disappointing fact that our public libraries, night schools and other institutions founded for the benefit and elevation of the
masses, were least patronized by those of most leisure. “It not
strange,” said my host. “The reason able employment the body, pre
pares the mind for recreation. man's mind though, especially
not well cultivated, having nothing
business and getting the lion's, tig
er's and wolf's share
the product
him, will the second place when man makes gifts with money obtained that way, such
the labor employed keep him busy. And
generosity any manner different
 employ bad just
but recreation, grows most boys do who have
the worst doing evil that good might come, contributing the equalization wealth, while your millionaires take from the poor and give such way enhance their reputation, this being the only thing desired after having ac quired more money than they can
nothing
do but play. The universe founded on plan and that plan
contemplates that every man shall use promoting their pleasures. work. The man who does not, suf From my point view, there no fers and society suffers by him. more generosity such actions than There are no exceptions this there was Trajan's lavish expendi rule.”
confess that you have had the better me along,” said “but you are certainly mistaken when you say that there are no exceptions
ture on his tomb. think you will find too, that the sons these mil lionaires who inherit the money without the training that came with its accumulation, will suffer and make society suffer, thus proving the old Bible doctrine that the sins
this rule, for many our most in telligent and virtuous men are those who have grown vastly rich from the
from that Robin Hood, who rob
bed one class and gave another? even as commendable, for the
old highwayman invariably took from the rich and gave the poor,
the parents are visited the may children unto the third and fourth
results other men's labor.
say most generous also, for my generation.”
country hundreds churches, col “That doctrine may true
  of
of
of
I in
be in
on
to
is to is
of
all
a
I
of
atIs of it
a
to
be A
to
“I of
it toasit a
or
of
of
as to to
in byof
in
in to in in be
ofin a
I a
in
I inof
a ofby
is
to
of
it.
II,to if ofby in itisof
or
a of
 112 FLORI 1)A
theory," I replied laughing “but in my country the first generation usu
MA (;AZINE
ally exhausts the possibility of the
easier for the rest follow; and
evil by getting rid of the root of it.”
so believe the world has been the
“In as far as the money itself may
gainer the very inequalities and
contribute directly to the evil,” as
injustice which you condemn.
sented my host;” but a life of prof ligacy and dissipation made possible
its age long and world wide ad–
by inherited wealth may leave a train
marched phalanx. Under favor
of evils behind it extending to gen erations unborn.”
ing conditions the strongest and
“Then you regard wealth as an evil, do you?” I asked.
and boldest have broken away and led the advance, scaling walls oth
ers impregnable and climbing
heights inaccessible the average “I certainly regard wealth as a and placing beacon lights make most prolific source of evil and the ascent easier for those that fol
where it is acquired in the manner low.”
we have been discussing, that “My dear sir,” exclaimed the where poor man required professor, "your figure very pret
they blaze the way they open up.
vance, the human mind has not
 make shoes for rich man for fifty cents and then pay $1.50 for the
the minority, for there must few rich, than poor men.” grant
ty, but think
only because
same shoes for himself and family
wear, evil per se. You say
this partly the result legislation defects,” (with sly glance the and yours government
what you say,” replied. “Govern
ances. not your figure find
ment of, for and the rich, al ways has been and probably always
fault with but your logic. Let state your proposition the form
will be, because wealth power. But does not necessarily follow that for that reason bad. the co-oper ation of mind and matter the af
syllogism and proceed logically. Major premise:–In advance ment, mind will secure to itself the conditions most favorable to its ex
fairs human
government
pansion; wealth pansion
minor premise,—but most favorable to the ex
the mind: conclusion,
everything else, mind must predom
inate. predominating secures
the aid wealth that present wonderful stage develop
the conditions of life most favorable
therefore
the human mind has advanced to its
itself and thus extends its sphere, an exploring party few men
ment.
ment
ted that
this fair and logical state the proposition?" admit
was.
(To continued.)
by getting more than their share
food are enabled penetrate faster and further than their comrades. But
the beautiful words have clothed Skill
which you the art of
dressing may made
hide many
ladies,) but am not going
taken by mere external appear
  to
it
is I is a
of
as in
of
to to is,
as to in
it
er
a
it
Inisbya is of
it of Is bea by
of is
It in
I
by a
I
in
of of
its
to inin sois
to
to
In
of
is
if is
it it a
it is
I toat us be
to to
In
in
“I be
is, is an
of of I it as a is
isIabeit.it is
in
 ERY well; then I dispute your minor premise and deny your itively. conclusion,” said my host pos
deeply interested caught every point.
H'LORIDA. MAGAZINE
1153
listeners and
The Iron
RICHARD JAMESON MORGAN,
[All Rights Reserved.]
“Since you have appealed “Wealth is not favorable to Caesar,” said “unto Caesar will the expansion of the mind and for its we go. you resort logic, will wonderful development it acknowl meet you with your own weapon and
edges no financial obligation whatso state another syllogism for you
ever. Under the patronage of wealth disprove. Major premise;
which was to be the gainer by its times wealth and power have been
product, mind has wrought some of used repress and retard the devel its most beautiful creations and in opment the mind; minor premise,
Republic.
 modern times wealth has supplied in but the nature of mind to some instances tools to facilitate its resist oppression and its mightiest
work; but in the main, money has energies have been aroused this rather been the enemy of mind, and resistance; conclusion; therefore
wealth, whether supporting monar wealth and power have unwittingly chical extravagance, religious bigo contributed the development and try or personal vanity and ambition, expansion the mind!”
has tended to suppress rather than “Very neatly turned cried the
promote the highest and noblest professor, while the ladies smiled qualities of the human mind. Its sub and Miss Helen even infringed the limest efforts have been achieved in neutrality laws by clapping her
poverty, in exile, in dungeons even, hands. “Then your position,” con and as for scaling walls impregnable tinued my host, “is that everything and climbing heights inaccessible, which opposes the advancement
and planting beacon lights for oth the mind, really facilitates its devel ers, as per your pretty figure, the opment?”
most gifted men have gone to the “Not precisely. Everything stake or scaffold, because power, which arouses the resistance and which has always been synonymous overcoming instinct the mind,” with wealth did not approve.”
I began to get warm in the col lar, for though I had engaged in the discussion more for information than
returned.
“The point well taken and strongly stated,” conceded the pro argument, the ease and skill with fessor, “but, what wealth and power which my opponent had met and de has contributed the development the mind such direct oppres
feated me at every point, aroused the belligerency my nature.
sion as arouse resistance and wake slumbering energies, slight
But what made more exasperat ing too, the ladies seemed
comparison with the blight and stag
  to be
it
of
its
of
all of
to
by
of to
is of in
to is
of
to
is
in Iof
!”
it
to
If
in inI all to
to
I,
 164 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
nation induced by war, financial op pression and industrial wrongs.”
orphans, but it also makes heroes,
and liberty and patriotism have been
fructified by all the blood the earth has ever drunk.'"
“And what has been the liberty of the world,” my friend asked scornfully, “but the illusion which people cherish when they have ex changed one set of masters for an– other? And what is the patriotism of the world but that savage and sense less prejudice which is cultivated by teaching the fools of nation to hate the fools of other nations? And when the fools of two nations have been
set by the ears by their rulers, they fight and maim and kill—and this is called glorious war!”
“You charge these things to wealth then 7"
“I do, most unqualifiedly,” re
sponded my host. “Homer would
have us believe that the Trojan war
was fought for love, but the wars of
history have been for wealth and power.”
“I make the point on you,” I re turned, “that the poorest nations have been the least intelligent and that industrial wrongs have always been greatest where ignorance has been grossest. I think that his tory will sustain me in the further as sertion, that war has been the great civilizer of the world.”
 “I beg a truce!” I cried, seeing that “Incontrovertible statements, all,” my venerable host felt deeply on the
asserted my opponent,” and incor subject, while I was merely endeav
rect only as they confuse cause and oring to hold up my end of the argu effect; if the poorest nations have ment.” I find that I am no match for
been the least intelligent, they were you Iron Republicans. I have only en the poorest because they were the countered these accomplished ladies,
dustrial wrongs have been greatest
least intelligent and not unintelli yourself and Professor Hallam, and gent because they were poor. If in on the subjects of dress, industrial
where ignorance has been most dense, it is simply because the peo
economy and music I find that I know nothing; am eliminated, ob
ple being ignorant, were least able to defend themselves against indus
literated. In other words, to use an Americanism, I am not in it, and
trial wrongs. If civilization has been
a product of war, it is a bi-product
and resulted because notwithstand
ing the barbarity and inhumanity of
the wars, they brought different peo shares long since,” answered my ples together and the knowledge of friend smiling good humoredly, “so different nations, by amalgamation, that formality will have dispens was enlarged. War itself is debasing with. am generous though
to the human mind.” victory and will pay you the compli “I take issue with you on that." ment say that your cause was said I hotly. “War may be destruc worthy your prowess, the result
tive but it is not debasing. War may might different. be cruel, but cruelty calls forth no though, the justice bility. War may make widows and less an element
contests
cause not strength than the
hereby surrender, foot horse and dragoons. I cannot offer you my
sword for I presume there is no such thing in this model republic.”
“They were beaten into plow
  of
all of In
ed be of to I
if a
to be
all
is
in
 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 165
greatness of cannon and sharpness
of steel.” I bowed my acknowledge ment of the compliment and indulg
with a vigor that proved she was in earnest. “I acknowledge my indebt
ed the hope that I might yet find
edness to history and Sir Walter and when I read of the deeds of Couer de
some vulnerable point in the Iron Lion and Ivanhoe, even of Dalgetty
Republic, if for nothing else than to and Debracy, I cannot abide the
redeem myself in the fair eyes that goody goodiness of a big nation like had witnessed my discomfiture. this that works and eats and slumbers
“I think you are entirely too mag like an ox. What would be the history nanimous in professing defeat,” said of the world today if the Iron Repub
Miss Morris, taking part in the con versation for the first time and look
lic had been founded on the Babylon ian empire and its principles had re
ing at me with her beautiful eyes
ceived world wide acceptances? Try
beaming with interest. “If you are
to think of a history of the world without an Alexander or Caesar or
not too proud to accept an humble
ally,” (I bowed again,) “I venture to suggest that the enemy,"(smiling and
Frederick the Great, or Bonaparte or
 flashing a glance at her father,) “may attribute his victory—if indeed he has won it—to the fact that the fight ing was all in his own territory where he was entrenched. It is my opinion, if I am worthy to be admitted to a council of war, that you run up the white flag too soon.” “With the glo rious prospect such a promising alli ance opens up to me,” I replied face
or Thermopylae, without Crusades or Couer de Lion "
though she had suddenly discovered tiously but with a peculiar thrill of in her traces of insanity.
gratification, “I hasten to pull down
“The history of the world, my dear,” said her father after a mo
ments silence, “we may not alter or amend and perhaps would not if we could. It is with the world's life as with
the flag of defeat and beg that you will advance into the breach.” Well,”
said my fair ally, “I reopen the attack by the assertion that it was not alone
in bringing the nations into closer a man's; the excesses, dissipations
intercourse that war has exerted a civilizing and elevating influence on the human mind. I believe that the
and sins of early years cannot be blotted out and the experience of them may even serve to enhance the
highest and noblest thoughts of the virtues of maturer age. Sometimes peaceful present, owe their origin to such experiences become the foun the high and noble deeds of a past dation of a nobler and more purpose made glorious by war.” ful life and then they may be recalled
“Tut, tut,” exclaimed her father, without regret. But it is a poor life "the romances of history and Sir that does not improve with age and
corrupted your the world's life will be unrounded mind.” and incomplete if it is not profited by “Kindled rather,” retorted my ally the knowledge and experience of the
Walter Scott have
Washington. Without a Marathon
I was surprised at the energy with
which these words were uttered and
suspected that the strong feeling that
prompted them must have been long
repressed. My host looked aston ished and Mrs. Morris turned to her
daughter with a glance of concern as

 f 166
past.” It is not in me to controvert
these words so seriously and truly
spoken, but with my new ally I was
in the predicament of the man in the
Indian fable, who made an alliance mind Professor Hallam, who would with the tiger and found, after he
had bound himself with thongs to that unconquerable beast, that he could not run away when he would.
walk around block rather than
“I trust you will not be angry with
me father, if I seem to dispute with
you,” replied Miss Helen with un yielding firmness, “but can that have
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
tread upon worm, greater man than Couer de Lion ever was, from every intelligent point view.”
“It may wrong and wicked,” cried the beautiful woman vehement
tion of poetry and great thoughts head upon breastplate the clash but the high deeds which you impute swords glorious cause would to the recklessness of the world's make sweeter music for me than all
ly, with flashing eyes and flushed face, “and can't help and don’t care; but am tired death this dreary monotony peace and in the present? What is the inspira prosperity, and the ring spear
been wholly bad in the past, which is the source of all that is most beautiful
ample God's creation than any me dieval swashbuckler that ever drew
sword broke lance win the silly fancy foolish lady love. To my
 youth? War cruel, but does not the piping herdsmen Utopia,—or very cruelty provoke nobler sacrifices all the fiddlers of Ironia, for that mat
—as Mr. Barrington has said—and ter,” and bursting into tears she rose more exalted heroism than the pip hastily from the table and left the ing herdsmen Utopia ever dreamed room. “Well I’ll declare exclaimed of? And may not the plan my host pushing back his chair.
creation that sunshine and storm, “Who can solve the female enigma?" tears and laughter, love and hate, could not, but the one under con war and peace, shall alternate like sideration had gratified me exceed day and night the end time?” ingly her strange conduct, though
“My daughter,” answered her could not tell exactly why.
father gravely, am grieved the
said that women are past finding out
and have never been careful inves
low estimation which you seem
tigator, but without understanding
hold your country, and that condition which has been the desire the ages,
the contemptuous reference
“fiddlers Ironia” braced me up im mensely.
but you are entitled your opinions
and would not have you repress
them deference me. my
faith though, that the plan crea
tion contemplates the ultimate elim
ination hate and strife and all evil
whatsoever. And though he may not filled with romance she left the table appeal youth and romantic im also and followed her daughter from agination, the piping herdsmen the room. The meal had been con Utopia, who tends his flocks and lives cluded some time before, and Miss
peace, with clean hands and up Morris' unexpected denouement right heart, me, nobler ex the word may used here, had
With woman's penetration, prob
ably Mrs. Morris saw further into the matter than any and saying
something about girls heads being
the
  is to
in“I to
it of
is
all
be
I is to it
in
in I
a a
to
to
be in
as
to
it. is
!” or of of a
to of
of It
an is at
a
by
ofor of
of
ina if be a a a it a
of
of
of to I of a its
if IIofofI
of
usa ofofato
It
I is
 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 107
very naturally put an end to the con (I hoped the latter,) her mother had versation, my host led the way and no sooner spoken the words than we adjourned to the library. Miss Helen stepped forward and plac
by the ringing of a gong that the car
Ten or fifteen minutes after leaving ed her foot on the step to enter the the dining room we were made aware carriage. I helped her in and her
riage had arrived and looking out I saw a handsome vehicle with two
mother after her and then at another
seats besides the driver's, standing at
lightning like flash of those wonder ful eyes which conveyed more mean ing than any mere words, I entered the carriage and took my seat oppo site to her. Professor Morris follow
ed taking his seat by my side and as I looked into the face of the peerless woman before me, so chaste and beautiful, with just the suggestion of a fine scorn in the curve of the ex
the door. My host called for the ladies and they came down immediately. Miss Helen blushed as she entered
the room and approaching her father with downcast eyes, kissed him on the cheek. “How now, my young renegade, what means this treason to your country?” he exclaimed hold
 quisitely chiseled mouth and droop ing her face between his hands and ing eyelids, I felt that but for the looking at her with mock severity. presence of others I must have fallen “It simply means that the country on my knees before her. If Cupid had is all right Ma Pere, but that I am let me pass through all the years be
not ready for the millenium,” she re plied smiling faintly and with that she
fore, unscathed, he was atoning for
turned on me a glance that made my heart bound and I mentally snapped
my fingers at the “fiddlers of Ironia.” There was something in that glance
which said plainer than words, that there was a bond between us and the alliance would be continued. She was attired for the drive in a blue flannel
gown buttoned to the throat like an English riding habit, with jaunty cap,
his dereliction by a most extraordin
and gloves to match. Her mother was similarly dressed in a dark brown suit, and without delay we passed out to
and loved her for years, so im
the carriage.
As we stood by the carriage, while
feature of her face and every speak
my host was giving the motorman directions as to the course of the
fathomable eyes. Indeed, by some
drive. Mrs. Morris remarked that I
had best sit on the back seat with the
professor, as looking forward, it gave
a better opportunity for observation.
The seats faced each other and credible to me that I had looked upon whether it was by accident or design, her for the first time, only the day be
ary display of archery, for with every
glance of those glorious eyes an ar
row seemed to quiver in my heart.
Never having experienced the senti
ment, sensation—or whatever it is—
of love, my resources in that direc tion were untouched and I came to
it like a strong man to a race. I had
known this woman less than two days
and already I felt as if I had known
pressed upon my heart was every
ing glance of those marvelous un,
strange consciousness it began to
dawn upon me that I had looked
upon that face and into those eyes before. \\ as there truth in the theo
sophical philosophy of Plato, or had I seen her in a dream? It seemed in

 168 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
fore. It could not be I could not in so short a time have become so fa
miliar with every lineament and every changing expression of quick intelligence.
When we left my friend's door, we
“I shall not argue about this,” I remarked after a few minutes re
did not go towards the capitol but in another direction, through streets I
flection, “and whether or not it is a desirable condition, it is certainly a peculiar one for a country like this,
had not seen before. The houses that seems to be blessed, not only
were unpretentious as a rule, built of
with material resources of every de scription, but with the skill and en
brick and stone mostly and every
ergy to utilize them to the last de gree. Will you explain to me why it
where there was an appearance of comfort without Ostentation. We
is that in such a country a man of in dustry and good judgment does not
passed through miles of shaded streets, by fountains and monuments, through parks and pleasure grounds, finding everywhere beauty, cleanli ness and evidences of prosperity. We passed houses of the most distin guished men of the nation, including those of the president, members of the Supreme Cabinet and others emi nent for their achievements in the field of science and letters, and there was no noticeable difference between
grow rich as elsewhere in the world.” “For the same reason that a man
does not lift himself over a stile by the straps of his boots,” answered the professor facetiously. “Simply be
cause it is a feat impossible of ac complishment.”
them and the residences of ordinary citizens. There seemed to be no aris
“In the first place,” said the pro fessor," if it were not for debt, inter est and unearned increment, men could not become rich even where they are not restrained; and in the
tocratic quarter and when I proposed
to turn through the slums and suc ceeded in making myself understood, I was informed that there was no slums and nothing corresponding to them.
second place, here, where we have none of these evils, we anticipate the possibility of such a thing by legisla tion which renders it impossible.”
“Have you then reached that ideal
social state where you have no stand; how do you evade these evils poor?” I asked. —as you call them, on the one hand
“We have at least reached that and anticipate them on the other?”
ideal social state where we have no rich,” answered the professor.
“Well,” replied the professor, “be
sides having no debt, interest or un earned increment, which condition
itself is a bar to wealth, we have a
graduated income tax which would
__:Indeed! Do you mean to say that
you have no wealthy class at all?” “More,” replied my host: “that we
reach the point of confiscation before
have no wealthy person at all.”
“What!” I exclaimed ; “not a even moderate wealth, according to
single rich man in the entire repub your standards, is attained. For in lic 2'' stance, all incomes above 800 diems,
"Not a single rich man, woman or child in the entire republic and never can be,” was the answer.
 “But why? the conditions seem to be most favorable.”
“But that is what I wish to under

 -
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
169
are taxed ten per cent. and ten per money the way that will yield the cent. for every additional four hun largest returns.”
dred diems, which limits the income forty four hundred diems, for
“He may use any legitimate way,” was the answer. “That
that point the tax takes the whole. You see this tax limits incomes to
may buy commodities employ
bor engage any enterprise that twelve hundred does not conflict with the statutes.
possible sum diems.”
“But,” said
argumentatively, how can you, who interest and unearned increment
are such stickler for justice the abstract, justify this confiscation man's property, when, you claim, your system perfect that can not be acquired by dishonest meth ods.
My statement though was absolutely “without asking true; there no such thing debt,
“Theoretically, unjust,” as
sented the professor, “but the ob become debtor or creditor because
ject truly enlightened govern the law does not recognize any such
ment not much vindicate any ethical code, secure the happi ness and welfare of its citizens.
particular bull should grow horns much longer than the rest the herd
conditions. The nearest approach the binding force contracts, but the statutes have been so careful
framed that the obligations con tracts cannot be made partake
the nature debt. There being no dehorned although might seem such thing debt, there can
even the most limited sense.”
“Then you have no credit system at all?" asked.
“Our people do not know the meaning the word credit, when ap plied commercial transactions,” replied the professor. man cannot
 put mercy, should
cruel! not because he had acquired
course no such thing interest.
his weapons unjustly, but because
And the national exchange system, nothing can sold for more
having them puts his power
than the average cost production, one man cannot make much money off of another man's labor.”
unjust. We have ideal political con
ditions and cannot conceive how
man with any amount money here, could use to the detriment oth
“It seems then, that one object your government keep the peo ple poor!” “The object,” answered the professor, “is not keep the peo ple poor, but keep them such condition equality that one class cannot take advantage another, but wealth and poverty are purely
ers, but you remember Alexander's boast that no city was impregnable him, into which he could introduce an ass laden with gold.”
you just stated
“When
you had no such things
terest and unearned increment,” relative terms and cannot be said remarked, take that you intend that the object any more keep
now that debt, in
convey the idea that these were them poor than make them practical nulities above the limit fix rich. And when said that we had no
your income tax. Below that rich people, meant according limit presume man may use his your standard and that the old
  ed ed as
Iby to to isof
to
a
it
it its to it so
of
I
I is to to it
as
in it "..
all
asbe
in
“IitIita a at as so is
I,
of in it to is as as heof
of to If it in
I to a be be a of
so ait
a at or
a to I in
of byof ofis
is
toto ofbe
A
in
l
as to of
or
of in
toall a of ofof to lahe
of
to of asis,
ly it is
 170 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
world. In the truest sense our people canals and navigable rivers and light are for the most part rich, having ing, power, telephone and express
country abounding with resources services and franchises yield the de every kind which have been utiliz partment public utilities suffici ed, and being protected from taxes, ent sum, together with the profits
interest and every form oppression derived from the national exchange that could rob them of the fruits of system, meet all the expenses
their labor.”
government.”
say that you see,” said “The profits all
“And do you mean have no taxes either?”
asked in this business go the government.” credulously. “Practically none,” my “Yes, the government,” an–
friend answered. “We have gradu swered my friend, “for use fic
ated income tax, but only theory there no opportunity for ap
plication and was only enacted guard against unforeseen contingen cies. There tax too, on all unused land five per cent what cap able producing that being what the
state would get from vated. But this results ernment owning all
tion this kind convenient way express the aggregate ownership
the people.” can see but one difficulty,” remarked, “and that
 land and
session
use, free
the reply, “as the tariffs and percent the unused ages for the ensuing year are based any citizen can take pos on the expenses the government
exclaimed,
“the more learn of this
half millions are used defraying the expenses the government proper,
and hold all that he can charge himself his
the year before. For instance, the to tal cost operating the government
last year was about two hundred mil lion diems of which about five and
heirs and assigns forever, that tax
practically inoperative.” “Really,”
wonderful country, the more am amazed But you have no taxes tell
and the balance operating its ex changes and utilities. Assuming that the business these departments will
me how this model government supported."
“The bureau of subsistence and the department public utilities supply the means necessary for the expenses
the same this year last,
the government,” answered the professor. “Will you explain me
the tariffs raise the necessary
how this tainly must system.”
done?”
asked. “It cer– very complicated
amount. As matter fact though, making up the budget for any year,
was culti the gov
will yield.”
“That presents no difficulties,” was
by the department progression “On the contrary,” replied the scientific experimentation and new
professor, “it extremely simple utilities.” “You say the actual cost that every merchant and farmer government last year, outside your country puts practice the running your railroads, exchanges
conduct his business. Freight and other utilities, was about five and and passenger tariffs the railroads. half million diems: what diem P”
adjusting these tariffs and profits, impossible tell what they
simple arithmetical problem fix
very liberal margin allowed and the excess thus accruing expended
  a
of
ain be
asin ofto
it of “I is
is a
to toit a
a
of
is
is be of if
ofofasas isis a it
it so a I on in
I
of it of
toif of
in to in
it
of
!
as of of
of a
ato of
ofisofas in is
is ofin a
of
a is of
is
I is
to
in
of
“Iis toI. to a
in it
I is
I in a
to all
of
of
I to to of
its
 “It is the value of a day's work and
is the unit of our financial system. It is about the value of an American dol lar.”
“And what is the population of the republic?”
one hun any pro
“A little over fifty millions.”
“It seems incredible,” said I, “that
get out
fifty millions of people can be gov erned for this sum and—”
the hands the producer and into those of the consumer. “What the
“Say served for this sum !” inter rupted the professor.
“Well served for that sum and I
cannot understand it in any other light than that your people have ad
vanced to a higher plane of intelli
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 171
tation and other public utilities prob ably does not exceed one-half what
they are countries dominated wealth.” had never had any com mercial training, but knew that
cost the way from ten dred per cent the value duct the United States
total business of this vast trust all branches?” asked.
“Something like four billions diems,” replied the Professor.
Fifty millions people one great trust and that organized
 gence and morality than the people and safe-guarded that no member
of other countries.” could ever take advantage another. “It may be said without egotism could scarcely conceive such
that they have advanced to a some thing, but was extremely simple what higher plane of intelligence.” theory and there was, successful
said the professor, “for the results of it are here to show; but I do not think they are any better morally. Morality and religion is the surplus
operation right before my eyes.
am beginning comprehend
something your wonderful scheme government, remarked, “but
crop here, as in America and every one the first things learned after
where else. They do not rob and op
press because they have combined for mutual protection against each
leaving my ship was that you do not use metal money medium ex
change, am curious learn some thing your financial system. How does your medium exchange orig inate and on what based?"
believe,” said the Professor,
without answering my question,
“that our financial system near perfect anything human origin
can be." you
Other." government “The entire
seems to be run on the principles of a great
trust or corporation," I remarked.
“That's just exactly what it is,” re
plied my friend. It is the logical end and culmination of trusts and mo
nopoly. It is a trust formed of the whole people for purposes of governs ment, commerce, transportation, ed
“And
governmental scheme
your perfect?"
ucation and everything else that per
tains to their welfare. The cost of the
entire system in its branches, op
erative, legislative, judicial, educa
tional and penal, amounts an im
post about five per cent, on com before, but the final perfect govern merce, while the tariffs for transpor ment government all."
not think
whole
asked surprise.
“No indeed,” replied my friend.
“It ideal comparison with what has been accomplished the world
  of
all to
I “I of“II of
is is
no indoas I
of of
isofas it of
in all
in ofit!Iin
at in is
is
as of
toofto
of it a I to to
in of so of
I
“I
of of
as
ina
in inisit of of it by
I
 172 FLORIDA.
MAGAZINE
manipulation the financiers who own and control commerce all commodities becomes mere shut
“Why Professor, you cannot mean anarchy!" I exclaimed.
“O no,” he answered, “just no government. When people become fully civilized and Christianized, and
tlecock the hands the money masters, and the value everything, their medium, subject their
that narrow delusion called patriot ism gives place to world-wide frater nalism, there will be no necessity for
will. Under such conditions, not
hereafter! But this monetary sys
tem, tell me something about that.”
“It is all comprehended in these
propositions,” said the Professor.
strange country plen -. that where
government or laws.” produced for all, few roll “For goodness sake,” I cried, wealth and luxury, while many suf
“leave something for heaven and fer for the actual comforts of life.
not strange either, that those who control the money are the ones that roll wealth, while those who do all the work and produce all the com modities grovel want. This the result ignorance on the part the
 The value of anything is what it is
worth to man; and it is honestly
worth to one man what it costs an producing masses and about on
other man to produce Value par with that fabled transaction medium exchange can only inhere which were concerned two cats,
when that medium commodity monkey and piece cheese. the intrinsic worth, when represents place that crude and unjust system,
such commodity, and then its value the Iron Republic employs scien exactly that the article repre tific method that just all. The
sents.”
“Very well, go on.”
value every product scientific ally fixed the average cost pro duction, and when man produces
“Where there are no exchangeable
commodities value, there can be
no honest medium exchange be popular trust called the government cause there no exchangeable com and receives therefor its assientos,
modity for represent. Here, the value everything based on the
which are certificates its value and deposit. As everything that pro
production, and when
anything else may want.
crude state society this exchange
duced placed escrow just the same, these assientos are exchange
average cost passes out
ducer, he
the hands the pro entitled its value
able for any other commodity the same basis value. These assientos then, are the circulating medium and not diem them can exist outside
effected bartering one article
for the other directly, ing them into pieces
medium exchange. But the government exchange, there this medium an uncertain quantity, outstanding, somewhere, diem depending on the discovery mines. represent that commodity. When the vagaries legislation and the that commodity withdrawn for
by convert
the national exchange unless its value some commodity exists with
metal other money un
As long there diem's
unscientific forms
certain arbitrary value and using worth any commodity the hands
anything delivers the great
  of
is
of ofhe or
is
ofita of isit, in is to is to is of a of of a
of
it
it is it is as
a of a
as
In
a in
in of a
or is it is
byof of of to of of
of
of
is a
of or of or
to
is
it.
of in of it. in
is
ty is
in
of
it
*
a
of is of of
in
a
aisofa itto
tois
aina
on In
of is is It in
in
of
in
of of he by a
as in is in a of
in
 consumption the diem is absorbed by the government and the financial in cident is closed. These assientos are
numbered and dated and must go through the exchange once a year,
either in exchange for commodities or new assientos, (they are re-issued every year), so if any are lost or de stroyed, after the date of the annual funding they are made good to the
loser, if he has preserved the numbers so that his loss can be identified. Un
merely on account of that conven ience. The exchange fixes the price though of everything and the cater
der this system no great store of money can be hoarded anywhere,
ers are only paid enough more to pay for this convenience as the exchange is open for all. Of course this ap plies only to the commodities that are handled in the exchange; there are many commodities, perishable goods, confectioneries and an endless variety of gimcracks, that are not re ceived into the exchange at and are dispensed the caterers.”
and there is no temptation in that di rection as it cannot be made to yield
“Your absolute cash system un doubtedly saves vast amount loss and litigation,” said “but men are
interest or increment. In carrying out this great governmental trust four billions of diem are issued and
compelled have accommodation suffer, and that, seems me
absorbed annually, and so the great financial tide ebbs and flows with the
regularity and certainty of the tides of the ocean. Best of all, no man can
receive value until he produces value,
where your system would work great hardship.”
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 17:3
 this. man has nothing he
in which there are no drones. This pauper, the language your
and so we have a great human hive
may seem to you a small volume of country, and could not get accommo
business for so large a nation, but as middle men are practically eliminat ed and there is no wasteful competi tion, a mutual exchange of commod ities is effected with much less trad ing than in your country.”
“And have you no merchants at all.” I asked.
“O yes,” was the answer, “we have a considerable number of men engag ed in supplying the wants of the peo ple, besides those employed at the exchange, but they can hardly be
dation there nor anywhere else. has non-perishable property
any kind though, here, can go
called merchants, as they are in real
“It might
Professor, “although they are print
ity caterers. They establish them selves in locations more convenient
done,” answered the
to the people of certain sections than
specially prepared paper, but every man who passes one may be
would be vance over the exchange prices like counterfeiting bank check
the exchange and receive a small ad
required endorse
“If there was no remedy,” replied
the Professor, “it were still better
that few should suffer than many, but the system provides even against
the exchange
and get assientos fifty per cent
his commonwealth the amount
the value the propert without interest. Of course must give bond for this value
signed freeholders protect the exchange against loss."
“Referring not possible asked.
these assientos, counterfeit them?"
  to
on
by
If a in a
a
it,
to
to it he
it in
of
of to
of all
ased he he or
betotoa in
of a
is Iit
is
oftoofIf a is
toby I,
 174 F'L() i. 11) 1
your country, which can be done by anybody. The penalty though, is se
1/4 G.12 IN E
ture taxed to the last degree to sub serve the convenience of man.
“It must have taken a great while,” I remarked, “for people to reduce kind of a misdemeanor is a rare oc the art of living to this point of per
vere, and as we have no idle class,
there is no criminal class, and any
currence in this country.”
“I should think," I remarked,
”that having to endorse these assien
tos in every small transaction would be annoying."
fection." -
“On the contrary,” replied my
friend, “the change was wrought in a
very few years. When the people
“They are not used in small trans actions,” was the reply. “They may be deposited and converted into fractional currency at any postof fice.”
found that it paid to live in this intel
inations of your money?”
"Our lowest denomination is the
trees and on the other, a man plow
minum, which represents five minutes labor. Then we have three minutes,
had seen. We were yet some dis
six minutes, and the hora, which is sup posed to represent an hours work and as a day's work here is eight hours, the hora is worth about twelve and a
tance from the farm house when
half as wide as a square piano run half cents in your money. Above ning towards us on two cables this, we have the quarter diem, half stretched on poles. I had noticed
diem and diem. In the larger de these cables and a lot of other wires nominations there are one, two but I had not learned all of their uses. three, five and ten diems. Money “Here's another new one on me!" I here represents labor and labor is cried, standing up in the carriage to
made the basis, or unit, if I may use that term, of its value. Twelve mi
nums make a hora; eight horas make a diem.”
see the thing go by.
“That is the rural express,” said the Professor, laughing, and then he
While this conversation, so dry
and uninteresting to the ordinary
reader, was going on, many places of
inferest were pointed out to me and thing to deliver there. It was run I was keenly alive to the beauties of ning about thirty miles an hour and the city through which we were rap we spurted along by it till it passed idly propelled. Afterwards we pass the house. The box or carrier ran ed out into the country, where on eight or ten feet above the ground every hand were the same evidences and when it reached a pole in front of of prosperity I had seen in the city. the house, one of a number of knobs Modest but comfortable
paved roads, every resource of na side of it engaged a pin on the pole
ligent, scientific way and the spirit of
reform got in the air, they went at it with a vim.”
 “Indeed, and what are the denom
ant, shady lane, on one side of which
We were going through a pleas
were some cattle standing under the
ing in a field with a horse—the first I
hearing a humming noise behind us I looked around and saw a box or a
car about as long and thick and about
directed the motorman to keep up with it until we passed the farm house that I might have an opportunity to see it work if it should have some
houses, or cranks that projected from the

 and several packages were thrust out of the rear end of it and dropped into
a box-like receptacle attached to the pole just below. A gong was rung
at the same time and a lady came out of the house, lowered the box with a
pulley and took out the packages. This rural delivery, the Professor told me, was one of the newest of the pub
utilities and was just being intro duced. had proved success and the department progress intend ed put them on throughout the
Republic. They were run from the exchanges and postoffices and car ried, besides mail, packages up twenty pounds weight. The cables
also carried electric light and power currents and the carriers ran cir
cuits going on round and back the starting point when empty. Several
them passed while we were on
said feelingly, would God the
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 175.
the line of the circuit and were run ning continuously. This section
country was elevated plateau and to the northward could be seen the
blue outlines the Illyrian hills.
The afternoon was perfect with an Indian summer haze, and as we trav
eled the rate about twenty miles an hour we traversed wide ex
tent territory. Scenes Arcadi beauty were spread out every where, and thought the miser
able hirelings and wage earners America and the old world, the sweat
shops and crowded tenements, the dwarfed and stunted lives that result from the mad struggle for wealth,
 FLORIDA SHEEP HERD-Citrus County.
poor my country could come here
when they die; would heaven
them
(To be continued.)
  A
us
of
a
of
lic
''' it
of
of
at
to in
to
“I
as I
of
an
be
to I of
of of
to
of a
to
It
an
of
 VOL. 5
44
FLORIDA T1AGAZINE OCTOBER, 19 O2
The Iron
RICHARD JAMESON MORGAN,
[All Rights Reserved.]
HAT more could heaven be 3' exclaimed the Pro fessor, stretching out his
compre
from the hands of all-providing, be ally learned love and the object neficent nature every good and beau her love were here
tiful thing that can minister to our We encountered motorcycles wants, what more can heaven be than every description and passed through an endless continuation of the same? several shires where the national ex And this would be the condition of change buildings, postoffices and the whole world if men could learn public schools, looked like the build the unwisdom of selfishness or were ings some old barony monas
but wise enough to combine for mu tery the middle ages, but with what tual protection against themselves!" difference! These people were His wife gazed upon him with af great and free with no feudal masters
fectionate admiration, but the beau fatten and fight, shaveling
tiful daughter looked away listlessly priests feast and fatten on the as though she were bored with it all. fruits of their toil. Each for all and
I felt, with a pang of disappointment, all for each, not because they were that this beautiful woman must after more unselfish than their less fortun
all be shallow and feelingless, but ate fellowmen but because they had when, a moment later, she turned to learned that only few could
me with a wistful look in her eyes great and rich, and acting with the and asked me if I did not think that if wisdom and power that belonged one had been born in heaven and had the majority, they had mutually
never lived
anywhere else, they agreed that none should rich and
Republic.
would grow tired of
 hand toward the lovely undulating
fields. “To live, to labor and to
love! Is that not heaven? Un
harrowed by galling apprehension of knew little the female heart—"no poverty and want, walking the sweet woman would become ennuied with sequestered vale of life and taking this glorious country she had re
hended something
the ennui that
made life tiresome to her even so
blest country. And again snap
ped my fingers the “fiddlers Iro
nia,” for said myself—although
  be
to be
or
or
it, I
a
!"
of if
a to
to
of of
a
to ofItoat
of I ofof I
in
 184 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
none great except in a noble and un giant's castle, rose sheer the height selfish way that made the greatness nearly hundred feet, over the of one the common heritage and edge which some places fell pleasure of all. great festoons flowering vines.
Making a wide detour we came to “Those lovely banks,” said the pro the Urbana river and followed its fessor, after had admired their pic
course back to the city. It was as turesque beauty, “were once crown
picturesque as the Hudson but no palaces lined its banks. Modest and unpretendig cottages, comforta
of the owner, faced the wide boule the happy homes people who
this country. The masses labored ble and adequate; many of them for them, the great river toiled for beautiful in design, but all simple and them. Now, where pretentious pal unostentatious, as though built more aces once vied with each other to ad for use than to advertise the station vertise their owner's wealth, stand
vard that ran by the river like the long winding streets of an old fashion ed American village. We had reach ed the great dam only a few miles
are neither masters nor slaves, and the great river too, masterless, for lo, works for all!”
At this moment the great sun dis appeared behind the horizon and
from the city and stopped to look at
the public buildings where the mil the broad amber bars light flashed lion horse power of the mighty river up and expanded like flaming ban
was transmuted into that subtle, in
ners the sky, deep solemn chime music came rolling grandly down
from towards the city whose outlines could but dimly discerned against the background night that loomed
ed with the villas of the manufactur ing, commercial and financial barons
 comprehensible force that night and
day, ran hundreds of miles of rail road, thousands of electric lights, ru ral express carriers, mills and other public utilities.
behind. On came the music, stately
and grand became the time and touched the horizon, a great ball of scene. Sinking deep sweet sym fire, “the grand old sun after light phonies that seemed breathe the
“See "said the professor as the sun
ing and warming us day, will still this water has lifted from the sea, work for night was beautiful. Far up the river dis tant bend, the water above the dam
spirit blest contentment and repose anon swelled magnificent burst
lay smooth and placid and flashed
like silver. On one side steep wood
ed bank descended from the bottle nocturne and every direction far
vard the water's edge where were rustic seats and boathouses inter
vals along. On the other side wall rock, perpendicular some places,
as could see; on the boulevard or boats upon the river, men stopped and listened reverentially the Angelus. For ten minutes the glor
and seamed and serrated like the ious strain swelled from the “tower rough chased facade some old music,” rolled out over the fading
glorious music that carried note
exultation and triumph like the ex ulting pean world wide victory the ages. Unconsciously uncovered my head under the spell the divine
  of
in
a
a
all a It
of
to
by
at
to !”
of I ofof
it of
of it in
of of
of I as
to
to
a as
in
of as
of
I a
in of
as
us he all
a a of
to
to
of be
in
to
of
is
of a
 in flashing outline like the realization
were entirely new to me. It was as if
of a fairy scene in a story of the Ara bian Nights.
a man should be born full grown into
I looked at my host. His eyes were closed, he sat with such an expression
the wonders of the 20th century, and
of deep solemnity and peace upon his
ronment impressed me no less by the wherefore than facts of its existence.
When an inquisitive boy gets hold of a mechanical toy he scarcely awaits to see it operate before going into it to see how it operates. And so, while I was charmed and enthused by my surroundings and interested in my companions, (deeply in one of them),
noble face, that I felt a thrill of awe as though in the presence of an in
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 185
landscape, and echoed and reverber industrial congress than a drawing ated along the walls and cliffs of the room or carriage ride through a
winding river. And then ceasing, beautiful country in the company of with a flash, ten thousand electric beautiful women. But it must be re
lights punctuated the gathering membered that the astounding con
darkness and the great city gleamed
ditions by which I was surrounded
spired prophet of the olden time. I
turned my eyes to the queenly wo
man that sat before me and the spell
had worked not less powerfully on
her. Her head was thrown back, her
hands were clasped and from her half the emotion of curiosity was upper closed eyes the tears were running most in my mind. The facts of the ex down her cheeks. That music was a istence of amazing facts were broad
as a student and politician my envi
 man's soul, the soul of genius, lav cast before me everywhere. The
ishing itself on earthborn clods with such beauty and power as for the mo
wherefore of their existence I was
ment to make them too, feel that they were divine. And what was I in the
reaching after greedily. If I may use
presence of a spirit like this? In the exaltation of that moment so gross a thing as jealousy could not abide and I felt myself a glow worm with the sunshine beating upon me.
like a world bathed in sunlight. The why-ness like cloud drifts breaking
“Fiddlers of Ironia !” Never again could I force my lips to frame those words. No one spoke save the mo torman, who when the music ceased and the last rhythmic wave was lost in the dark'ning reaches of the river, uttered a deep “amen,” and at a sig nal from my host, pulled sharply on his lever and we shot away towards the city. -
with the long afternoon drive, we sat up only long enough after the even
The critical reader may observe that the conversation and discussions
just recorded are better suited to an
partment than I discovered that I was in the company of an original character.
such an expression, the is-ness was
over the horizon and floating to wards me.
All of us being somewhat fatigued
ing repast to take a resume of the day and then retired. The next morn ing I held a conversation with Cap tain Brent over the telephone and then took the train for Aegia. The duties of his office prevented Prof essor Morris from accompanying me and I anticipated rather a dull ride. but I had no sooner entered my com

 1S6; FLORI 1)-1
MAGAZINE
work of repairing the broken down walls that the people may go in and out in peace. Have you not read the
“Peace be unto you brother,” said
he as I took my seat opposite to him in the car.
“The same to you my friend,” I 'Torchlight of Truth?’” I assured replied, not knowing what else to say. him that I had never seen it.
“Do you live in this God forsaken “Aha!” he cried, clenching his fist
city of the plain?” he asked waving and shaking it at the universe at
his hand in a general way towards large. “The powers of darkness con the world outside. spire to keep the light from the peo
“Only a temporary sojourner.” ple but the truth is mighty and will
said I, surprised at his words and the solemn tones of condemnation with
which they were uttered.
“Even a temporary sojourn in
prevail. Read this (pulling out a newspaper, the first I had seen, from
to me), and when you have read it Sodom will do you hurt my brother,” change your garments, wash your
a pile under the seat and handing it
 said he sententiously. “Come out
flesh in pure water and come into the fellowship of Zion.”
from among them and be ye separ
I glanced at the paper which was
ate '" saith the Holy Book. Lot was
only a temporary sojourner in the printed in old English and saw that
city of the plain, but if you will read it was made up like many similar his subsequent history in the Divine American publications of lamenta
Allegory you will admit that it could not have been any worse with him if he had lived there all his life. These
tions, proclamations and execrations and was against everything in gener al and the Iron Republic in particu
lar.
things were written in the Divine Al
“Why is it,” I asked “that you em ploy newspapers while all other news and general intelligence is diffused by
legory for our guidance in real life and we do well to take heed lest we
too partake of evil and so bring ruin- upon us.”
the telephone?”
“Because of a conspiracy sir, a
"Sir,” I said looking at him in as tonishment, “I am a stranger here
damnable conspiracy!” pounding his
and I must confess that your lan guage is beyond my comprehension.
knee with his fist. “In the beginning we put it on the news service, but it was excluded by the department of public utilities on the ground that it monopolized more than half the ser vice while it was demanded by only a
If I may make bold to ask, who and what are you?”
“I perceive that you are indeed a
stranger," remarked the man with
an unconscious swell of pride in his few people. And yet sir, we put on voice, “or you would not need to ask
that question. I am the voice of one
crying in the wilderness prepare ye
the way of the Lord, make His paths
straight! My name is Moses and I am the founder and head of the Zionists. Unto us is committed the
only about one hundred thousand words a day. Think of it sir, the Di vine Truth suppressed because there was much of it and only a few people wanted to hear it! The very reasons why it should have been given even if it monopolized the whole service"

 there,” I interrupted. “As citizens of
Smate and Smathers in Office over His people? because they happened to draw their seals out of a wheel? I
the Iron Republic as I understand it and contributing to its maintainance,
I should say you were entitled to the benefit of the news service in the pro portion that your numbers compare with the population of the country at
say no! He called and anointed his
large. No more than that, but cer
give laws and make His will known to men '"
tainly that much if it is the ideally representative government that it is
“Ah!” I exclaimed, catching his drift, “you mean that rulership should the hands those only
claimed to be."
“God's curse on the ideally repre
who are called and inspired for that purpose.”
sentative government it is claimed to be '" shouted my strange companion violently. “What does it represent sir? Men, not God! The human and not the Divine! God is the creator of
“That exactly what mean,” he answered. “If the people are ruled by men who are divinely called that high function, they must ruled ac cording the will the Supreme Ruler which the only perfect way.”
called these high offices?” ven tured enquire.
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 187
“I don't quite agree with you drawing lots and putting Smith,
servants to rule over His heritage, to
 all things in heaven and earth and should rule in both, not men. I am
“But how could we know who were
happy to say that Zionists do not con tribute to the maintanance of such a
government except in so far as they
are compelled to by the use of the
public utilities. They have things in Samuel and Paul and David were common and hold themselves aloof called Because was revealed to
not be taxed for the support of such an iniquitous Babylon.”
from the exchanges so that they can these men and they made known
“My dear sir,” I remarked quietly, “I am a stranger to you and your creed and do not wish to enter into
the people. How do know that have been called to rule this nation
any discussion, but I cannot concieve how the creator of the world can rule
the name of the Lord? Because has been revealed to me and must make known to stubborn and stiff
in it except as he does by the laws of nature which seem to me to be inade
ilized state.” triumph gloriously “You cannot see how the Creator mies!”
against the truth, but the arm the quate for the government of a civ Lord not shortened and He will
can rule the world!” he exclaimed. “So mentally ejaculated,
“None are so blind as those who “cranks are not the result environ
will not see. Read my book on ment, but our common human na
“Theory of Divine Government!’ ture for they breed them even the How did He rule Israel in the Divine Iron Republic.
Allegory? Was it by voting and “My friend.” remarked, not wish
“How did the people know the
Divine Allegory that Moses and
necked race, whether they will hear
whether they will forbear. The powers darkness are leagued
over His ene
  I
is
!” of I
is it of
to to
to is
be in
or into
a
it
I of
of Iit be
I of all
inof inIto it I
 188 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
ing to argue with him as I had had some experience with this genus in
America, “I have no controversy
with you, being at the present time a student, an humble pupil of any who
will teach me; but several times you
have referred to a divine
allegory.
know far more than I do. I have been through every province of the coun
What do you mean by that, the Bible?”
try and have circumnavigated coast and have failed to find these places anything answering them.”
“The Divine Allegory, my brother,
is the Holy Word that has been given to man in figures and emblems for his guidance in the stern realities of ac
“Why man,” exclaimed amaze
tual life. It is called the Bible, or Word, and gives us knowledge of the will and relations of the Divine to the human.”
ment, “they are not the Iron Re
“Where are they?” I replied still
further confused by his domineering insistance, “why they are where they
have always been too, of course.”
“Well my brother you ask me to teach you and yet you appear to
public, but on the other side the world!','
 “But,” I asked, “why do you call it
tell you have been all through and all around it,” said he contempt uously, “and repeat they do not ex ist.”
“What!” asked, being now con vinced that the man was daft, “do you mean say, that there no world
an allegory? Is it not a record of the
real facts of God's dealings with man?”
“Why certainly not,” he replied! that were impossible.”
this Iron Re
“But why impossible?” I persisted.
beyond the confines public?”
mean say
“Simply because there is no pos sible basis for such real facts. Where
that this the
is your Egypt and Palistine and Je
any other has
rusalem and Babylon in real life?
world and there
never been discovered.”
Where is your Dead Sea and Mount Sinai and Rome and Athens?” And
“Why my friend,” exclaimed,
“your own histories must record the fact that this country was settled by colonists from England late the sixteenth century!”
he gave me a look of pitying triumph. “Where?” I retorted somewhat
confused by his confident air, bluff ed, as we say in America, “why they
“Lies!” said snapping his fing are where they have always been, of ers contemptuously. “Scholastic lies course. Egypt is in Africa, Palistine to deceive the credulous and make
is in Asia, Rome is in Italy and Ath foundation for evil practices. The
ens is in Greece. What's the matter with you anyhow, been eating prunes?”
children of the Truth know better.”
“Now see here.” said warming up and getting interested spite the whole thing, “you have literature,
“So my brother!” (with a commis
erating leer.) “do you cover one im hundreds books, histories, philoso
possibility with another! Where then phies, poems that were written
is your Africa, Asia, Italy and other countries; how then can you
Greece P” deny their existence?”
  of
I
he
I
in in of
is
in
is as
of
in
as
it is
of
“I
ifto II
“I I
to
, or I
to its
 “The devil! I'm from America self!”
“Lies, all li— —”
“Friends! fellowmen save me me from the clutches of this maniac!” he appealed to the other passengers.
sometimes almost tender, she never
theless held me worshipful dis tance, never repulsing, but always re
pressing me way that convinced me that my suit was not disagreeable, —but hopeless. No slighting refer
“Come and take this
lunatic off my hands!” I shouted, still
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
189
“Lies all,” he replied waving his up mid air, trains cars, far below hand scornfully as if to brush them looked like great, black, jointed out of the way. “All lies my brother.” worms crawling swiftly along the
but for the exercise driving the great double aeroplane.
was exhilerating the highest degree we swung around great ascending circles hurtled quiver ing down through the air long to boggan slides, leap up again though sprung from catapult, when the steering fan was dipped. Helen Morris never looked more beautiful
than we swung side by side under the aeroplane and surveyed the pan
“You have had ships and men earth and the crispness the rarified come here from America during your atmosphere would have chilled
life time; there are men here now that
ningly devised fables to deceive the unwary, but the children of the Truth
my
“Thunderation " I cried seizing him by the collar and yanking him out of the seat. “Do you mean to call me a lie?”
were born in that country!”
“All lies!” he reiterated. “Cun
know better.”
 orama the earth below. During “Help! Help!” he shouted lustily, the year our acquaintance had
“the man is crazy!”
“You are crazy yourself, you
made no more progress loving
£in fernal old loon!” I shouted shaking him all over the seats.
making day love than on the first we
old
holding on to him. And so as we surg ence had been made to Professor
ed back and forth and other pas sengers began climbing over seats
to get to us, a gong sounded and a moment later the car ran down on
the siding at Aegia and the doors flew open.
>k:::: ::
Hallam since the day when her impetuous argument with her father
We must have been fifteen hun
dred feet above the earth and from make atonement by being especially
that high altitude had most magnif icent view. Mountains could be
seen the blue distance, and rivers winding through sunny fields with here and there lake that flashed like silver. Many towns and villages were visible from where we floated high
kind. She was interested me, that was sure of, and when achieved
some notoriety winning the some
what famous “gangplow" case against the state, and began
talked about the brilliant attorney from America. her elation was so sin
met. Always kind, sympathetic,
she sneered the fiddlers Ironia,
and indeed, her conduct afterwards
indicated repentance for her hasty
and unjust words, for her subse
quent manner towards him my
presence
she seemed desirous
  as
at
in
a at
a
in
*::
by
to or
a atoofof
:: a
:: I
It as
us
in
::
Iinin ininof
of in in in I
to
be to or as us
of of
as
 190 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
dence,” She replied blushing and laughing.
“His was sad fate,” said “but
cere and apparent as to give me the hope that I had won two suits at the
same time; but when I would have improved the occasion to press my
not sad mine, for he was shut
claim for her heart and hand, she pro
out forever from the sight the bliss
tested declaring with tears that I gave her great pain and begged me
which he had lost, while alas, must
to desist. Notwithstanding, she seem
ed to be happier with me than with
Professor Hallam and I reached the have lost!” She blushed deeply and conclusion after close observation
that her hand had been promised to
gaze, and then turning her head look
him and she was too proud or too true to draw back when she found
ed away towards the blue hills that broke the northern horizon.
that her heart could not be given with had yielded my fate and while improving every opportunity
bask her presence, no more spoke my love. But this glorious
“After all,” she said, and speaking, as much to herself as to me, “after
all, the Christian philosophy teaches that the real heaven and true, the peace which above earthly pas
sion, much the fruit sacrifice
love. And turning her eyes full upon me, “perverse and impulsive
am sometimes, yet believe that am capable suffering rather than that should be the wilful cause of suffering another.” began ve hemently protest against any phil
endure the double grief losing what more than heaven to me and
then seeing another enjoy what
dropped her eyes before my ardent
 afternoon found the promptings
looked happy and
repress my heart. She
nature seem
glad, that could not bring my
self feel that was finally reject
ed lover.
The novelty and delight my po
sition made me again doubt the re ality and looking into her eyes that beamed as tender as the blue
osophy that would make two people
sky above us, said “this must heaven materialized and moderniz
ures were eliminated the process,” replied my fair companion.
care not what lacking long as that feature which makes heav
en here,” said, looking straight into her deep brown eyes.
miserable for the chance making one happy, when my ear caught the sound wavering melody above
“And pray what ed.
“The angelic!"
“But for the testimony Good Book which records
was cast out, would be tempted
the feet more with such velocity al
he retort that Lucifer also evi
hard
ed.” “If so, then good many feat us, which seemed to come down from
that?” she ask
“Don’t you know? That Professor Hallam and his eolian harp following us. Let's dip and jerking the steer ing fan with all her force, we flew down an aerial incline five hundred
most take my breath. making these dips downward glides, only
slight inclination necessary
that
heaven itself.
“Hark! What that sweet
sound?” My companion listened moment and then her face clouded.
  is
is
is
in
to
a
all
be I
of it
so
I
it. I
to or or
of a
I
of is as
is
so as a
!”
to in
of
is
“I I
ed to so
to of in
of aI
to I
in
of
it so
to
be
a
all III
of it to
is is I all I,
I
Inisofof ofof
I,
to a
as Ias I
as
 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 191
send the aeroplane whizzing through though I struggled to break loose, the air with the speed of an arrow, knowing that the velocity at which
but my companion, either with reck we were falling meant certain death less abandon or by accident, threw, for both of us, they held me fast.
our machine down almost to an angle of forty-five degrees and when, at the bottom of the incline, the head was
thrown up to make it leap into the air again, the great aeroplane bellied
Down, down we fell with a quivering fluttering motion like a winged bird
dropping to earth, and choked to blindness and suffocation I was ex
pecting to feel the impact that would crush us against the ground, when I became dimly conscious of a fierce shrieking sound above us and then Our downward motion seemed to be arrested. A moment later we struck the earth with a shock that seemed
upward with a strain that made the frame bend and quiver and then with
a report like the crack of a pistol it burst almost from end to end and
seeming to shudder for a moment,
began to drop towards the earth.
In this moment of deadly peril, I believe that all that was best and nob
to break every bone in my body.
 With a great wave of thankfulness I lest in me asserted itself and like a realized that we were saved and dis flash it occurred to me that the rent engaging the fair arms that still canvas while not sufficient to bear up wound around my neck like bands of two would probably drop gently steel, I struggled to my feet and hast
enough with one to avoid fatal con ily unbuckling the strap that bound sequences. With the thought came the beautiful form of my heart's idol
the resolve and in less than a second
after the aeroplane began to fall I had
to the wrecked machine, dragged her fainting from under the aeroplane.
My first concern was to ascertain if she were killed or injured and lay
thrown loose the strap that bound
me to my seat and rising upon the
pedal leaned over until my lips al ing her gently on the grass I found to
most touched the blanched face of my unspeakable joy that she was the woman I loved, and shouted,(for alive and bore no marks of injury.
the whipping of the rent canvas made
a noise like that of a hurricane.) “it
is death for one and I love you and
can die for you!” “Then let it be ously with my handkerchief, I was re death for both,” she cried letting oro warded in a few moments by seeing
of the bar and throwing both arms her open her eyes and look up at me around my neck with a vice-like with an expression of inexpressible
grip, “for I love you and cannot live
ing my lips to hers with a thrill that made me to forget the peril of death,
and then throwing myself forward,
dropped from the pedal. But the fair arms about my neck were strong and
tenderness.
without you!”
“One kiss, oh my darling!" press
“O my love!” she said holding up her hands to me, “then you would in deed have died for me!”
Doosing the close fitting bodice at the throat that she might breathe more freely, and fanning her vigor
“A thousand times.” I cried rapt
urously, seizing her hands and cover
ing them with kisses. “Now you shall be mine forever and ever!”

 192 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
“No, no, it cannot be '" she ex mansions, (where there no marry claimed hastily, withdrawing her ing and giving marriage, but all
hands and springing to her feet. are the angels God love and
“What does this mean?" running purity,)—I may accounted worthy back to the aeroplane with an ex of the humblest station in their
pression of terror. I followed her and sphere, shall content. And yet saw with astonishment that another she loved me and not him!
aeroplane was foul with ours and lay
Kneeling by him raised the noble head and chafed the poor broken hands that held within them the po
upon “What indeed!” cried, siezing the end and lifting up.
“Oh, don't you,-can't you see tency such divine harmony the that Professor Hallam's? Don't world will never hear again, but the
you see his harp? Oh my God!” and with shuddering cry horror she covered her face with her hands and
great soul had passed Death was doubtless instantaneous, for though
fell upon her knees moaning and cry ing.
his face was unmarred his body was
horribly crushed and broken. Dis patching one the bystanders
 Then dawned upon me that the noble man had swooped down and attaching his machine ours had thrown himself to death to save our
lives! Leaving the weeping woman ran group people who had
convey intelligence the accident the city, went back and raised the weeping girl who was have been
gathered some little distance away God-like man and worthy your and were talking and jesticulating troth; but surely the hand provi
wildly and there, crushed and dead dence this terrible thing. Will lay the noblest man and greatest you go and look upon him Taking
genius that ever lived. his Godlike my arm without speaking led her nobility soul, had caught our where our saviour lay upon the
aeroplane several hundred feet above ground and with solemn grace and the earth and seeing that could not dignity that was really majestic, she sustain all and prevent from being walked around to the dead man's feet
crushed against the earth, had and looked long and calmly his face. thrown himself down to horrible “Thou wert too pure and great be
death that his affianced might escape with his rival! wonder not that at
last, when earthly passion had been
chilled the cold touch death and the dross mortality scarce in tervened, that was of him she
thought, that was the wondrous never be worthy!” Then led her
melody his nocturne that she away, “Oh my Launcelot, thou art
heard above the roaring the frozen sea, rolling down from the beyond
ere she passed. And felt no pang jealousy.' the house many
not and never can good man, and yet love you!”
(Concluded November.)
great
the dead man's wife. “My darling.” said lifting her gently, “you would have been true to him and he was
loved “and
man,” she spoke last, the presence thy dead clay
unworthy Guinevere the pure and royal Arthur. Alas! the world has lost its greatest spirit and friend whom could
feel the feet
  of in
If,
I
of
of it
of of
a
us it
In
to
of
I
by ititof I
of he
to a
it
a it is
it.
in I
so of
be be in I of
of
he
it
of I aI
of as in as is
I
of
of
as I
I a in a
a
as I in
be of as or II
of
to '
is
at ** ofof
at toaItoto
at to
as
 OR months my beautiful wife
held her hand, feigning sleep, I
had been fading like a flower.
could feel the nervous tremor that
Even on ship-board and amid the excitement of the wildest storm,
agitated her, while her pulse flutter
she seemed listless and totally indif
ed with the intensity of the nervous strain.
ferent to her surroundings. The bood
My God! It was terrible that my sweet wife, the most beautiful and
FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
The Iron
RICHARD JAMESON MORGAN,
[All Rights Reserved.] (Concluded.)
ing sadness that began to come up
on her after the terrible accident gracious woman I ever knew and
that resulted in the death of Profes the only one I ever loved should suf sor Hallam, never left her, and fer like that! And at sunset she
Republic.
 while she sometimes simulated vi vacity, her gaiety pained rather than pleased me, for my love penetrated her sweet little deception and I knew that it was for my sake that she pretended what she did not feel.
would listen for the nocturne with the same fever of excitement. Thus
I had fondly hoped, and so had her
parents, that when she was out of she grew worse, and this intense, the country and away from the preoccupied, listening attitude be
came habitual. I employed every artifice I could devise to interest her
and fix her attention on objects about us and she with the sweetest
bitterness of my disappointment depths of her glorious eyes I would amounted to anguish. Every morn lose her. With the most intense ing on board of the vessel, as on concentration of mind she would shore, she would awake at the ex follow me and "sense" what I was act moment when the wonderful ma saying for a few minutes, and then tins of Professor Hallam had been
scenes that reminded her of her past her old bouyancy of spirits would re turn. Indeed but for this and the
dreadful melancholia that grew up
grace tried to be interested, but ev er have yielded to her desire to un en as I held her hand and talked to dertake the desperate journey to her with all the animation I could America. But it was not so, and the affect, looking into the fathomless
on her day after day, we would nev
wont to roll Out from the tower of
music, and listen wide-eyed and with every faculty strained to the utmost tension of alertness, listening. And
as I lay beside her sometimes and
she listened indeed, but not to me! And Oh, she tried so hard |
as long as we were in latitudes where day and night alternated and when we reached the regions of the pole where there were no sunrisings nor settings, instead of becoming better
One evening we stood by the rail on the quarter deck looking out over the hissing brine at the sun which hung red upon the horizon. It seem

 ed as if it were just ready to sink out of sight though really it had been
but slightly above the horizon for many days. As I stood with one arm around her and holding her
understand—that you might think –Oh what shall say? That you might not think that love you and you only with my heart! Oh my husband pity me and forgive your poor miserable, unfortunate wife! Oh
F'LORIDA M.AGAZINE 255
hand, her gaze was fixed on the red
ball of fire that touched the ocean's I—Oh, oh—" and she fell forward
rim and which was reflected in her eyes like the flashes in an opal. I
with her face against my knees, sob
drew her to me and spoke ardently of what I hoped to accomplish when
bing and quivering with the violence of her emotion.
we reached my own country, even putting my face against hers as I
spoke. But I do not think she heard
Lifting her gently my arms
while my heart was bursting, car ried her down into the cabin and laid her on her bed and with her
me! Like one hypnotized she seem arms still about my neck when
ed totally oblivious of her surround they held me back from fearful
 ings, and I saw with a pang of an death that summer afternoon, fell
guish that she was listening for the strains of that glorious nocturne,
such as was never heard except from the "tower of music," and such as
on my knees the bedside and with my face against hers, wept with her.
And the dim twilight the cabin,
while the sun hung red upon the rim of the sea, and the billows rustled
along the vessel's side with sad murmur like the sighing au tumn wind, she told me that Pro fessor Hallam's music had always impressed her way she could not understand. That whenever she heard his wonderful matins and noc
was never played by any hand save that of the dead master. And then
I believed my heart broke | Then a
pain struck through my breast that has never ceased from that hour to
this, waking or sleeping.
Dropping her hand I fell forward
with a groan and catching the rail
rested my head upon Starting turnes she seemed
lose herself,
the billows She told me
she had been struck, my darling
and was borne away of harmonious sound.
came back herself, and with cry
fell down my feet and with tor
that she could even divine the music advance the playing and knew
rent broken words and sobs beg
ged me forgive her. “Oh my each bar before she heard as well
love she cried, the tears ran
she had composed herself. Stranger than all, she said she al ways knew some mysterious in
down her beautiful upturned face, my heart breaking for you, but
cannot help indeed cannot. Oh! when cannot see you hear you
fluence the very moment the music
my heart aches for you with never ceasing misery. have
was going begin, and she knew that influence, that mysterious
struggled and have prayed, but
God will not help me! And have time, and while she could not hear feared that you—that you might not the music, by this strange power
something, that the master was playing now, was playing the
  I
I
aa I
all
I
I
'"
as if
I
as
I or
it.
to
by
of
in
by
by
is to it,
at to
in if
as
it it
of of an a
a as
I
of
on to
in
I
in a
all
I
 256 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE
which dominated her, she felt it and fall under the power the dead knew what unutterable strains were man's music.
being rendered in heaven or some
where. She told me as she lay there knew not that the end was so with her soft arms about my neck near and when came was as
down fast enough she could write she had not come on deck and had
and her dear face
touching mine, God had struck me with thunder
that if she had the skill to set it bolt out clear sky. For week
the grand music that was being ren scarcely been on her feet during the
dered day and night and day after time. The hallucination that pos
day without cessation At first she sessed her had not recurred since
said she only felt it evenings and mornings, and then more and more,
the day she told me all and was sure that some inexplicable way her violent emotion at that time had
until finally when we passed into the
zone where there was no alternation been the means breaking the
of day and night, she felt that he was playing all the time! She could not hear it but she felt felt its beauty and could not escape its power! She had kept this from me till now, see ing my suffering, she could no long
conceal but told me all, that might not doubt her love, but pity
spell. But the improvement had looked for from that did not come and she grew weaker, physically,
and forgive her the pain she caused
strait" and was laying off and on, keeping the towering ice wall
sight and waiting for wind that would drive through the current that runs like mill race through
me! first, she had done this
the great physicians Ironia might
have cured her the malady—for the channel. For hours my beauti such must have been—and en ful wife, now so frail and white as to
treated her to let me take her back seem almost ethereal, had reclined then but she would not consent. on the lounge the cabin with her
“Why has stopped now!" she cried, holding my face between her
hands and looking up me with the love light her eyes. “It stopped
play again even the angels and the entrance to the strait, when knew caused me sorrow And as with slight cry she clasped her
short off when you fell against the trying fix my mind upon chart rail, and know he would never that was making the ice coast
gazed into her face and saw the old look her eyes thanked God and prayed that the spell might be brok
en, and that she might never again
hands and opened wide her eyes
- >k
 day by day—or rather from hour hour, as there was no alternation of day and night.
We had sighted “Barrington
eyes half closed and such expres sion heavenly peace upon her face
that felt awed though the pres
ence an angel. was sitting table
with that look
knew Springing
listening expectan well.
her side with half
  cy
I
I
er
If init itit
I in I
it, of of
to
it,
at !”
at
I
he I
if
I IofIof a to
::
so
toof Iasinaus
of >k in a
a
aatan II a into if
>k
of of
ina ait
>k
of
it>k ×
 FLORIDA. MAGAZINE 257
uttered imprecation, I kneeled be within me, my tears gushed forth side her and caught her clasped and I felt as if my spirit was out hands in mine. "Listen," she whis borne on the wings of song, far pered excitedly, "he is going to above the sphere of earthly hope and play ! it—ah,
I feel
play passion; beyond
ing! It is the glorious nocturne he cord, beyond the veil of darkness,
now he is
the sound of dis
played that evening when we were into a great luminous ethereal space
by the river. Hark! I can hear it— that throbbed with the rythmic oh, so grand | Her eyes closed and measures of the music of the
she moved her head forward and spheres. And as I floated upward
from side to side for some moments on the waves of unutterable melody keeping time. where there was no horizon and no
“Edward, my husband, where are sky, an angel held me by the hand
you?” and about the neck and that angel, “I am here, darling," I cried pas I felt, had been my wife!
*k k + k :: *k
 sionately, pressing her hands and
*:
imprinting a kiss on her partly open I was aroused by a touch on the ed lips. “Then I am content,” and shoulder, and looking up I saw the
withdrawing one of her hands from kind face of Captain Brent bending mine, she put an arm around my over me. "Where am I?" I asked
neck. I started to speak caressing in a dazed way. “You are in the ly to her when she stopped me with hands of Almighty God,” replied the a quick "hush, I am to sing." He is Captain solemnly, “who doeth playing the prelude Now he is mo things well.”
tioning me to begin, now!" and in staggered my feet and gazed
haling a deep breath she began to about me and then looking down
sing the great “Peace hymn” of the saw the earthly image my wife still republic. and white reclining statue
“Of old when down the stargirt sky, marble; her eyes were closed The angel voices swelled and ran, though slumber, and her lips were
This was the burden of their cry, parted with smile, and realized Peace, peace on earth, good will that God had struck me the final
to man." blow. With calmness could not In the refrain, understand, motioned him out
“Peace, peace, peace, on all the the cabin and bowed myself the
earth peace,
Peace, peace, peace, among all men
peace."
floated out over the black ocean. pointed from the rim the black She drew my face down upon her Ocean to the zenith that was flushed
bosom and as the triumphant notes with rosy light.
of this magnificent hymn—the mas But why should linger with
terpiece of Professor Hallam—rose these sorrowful details? was not and fell, my heart seemed to melt stirred by any emotion and felt noth
